adoption of three kinds of analytical sensibility7 for studying the everyday life of an algorithm. First, how do algorithms participate in the everyday? Second, how do algorithms compose the everyday? Third, how (to what extent, through what means) does the algorithmic become the everyday? These will be pursued in subsequent chapters to which I will now turn attention. The Structure of the Argument Building on the abandoned luggage algorithm, Chapter 2 will set out the algorithms and their human and non-human associations that will form the focus for this study. The chapter will focus on one particular algorithmic system developed for public transport security and explore the ways in which the system provided a basis for experimenting with what computer scientists termed human-shaped objects. In contrast with much of the social science literature on algorithms that suggests the algorithm itself is more or less fxed or inscrutable, this chapter will instead set out one basis for ethnographically studying the algorithm up-close and in detail. Placing algorithms under scrutiny opens up the opportunity 14 D. NEYLAND for studying their instability and the ceaseless experimentation to which they are subjected. One basis for organising this experimentation is what Glynn (2010) terms elegance. Drawing on the recent growth of qualitative social science experimentation (Adkins and Lury 2012; Marres 2013; Corsín Jiménez and Estalella 2016), the chapter will consider how elegance is (and to an extent is not) accomplished. A fundamental proposition of the security system under development was that the algorithmic system could sift through streams of digital video data, recognise and then make decisions regarding humans (or at least humanshaped objects). Rather than depending on the laboratory experiments of natural science and economics analysed by science and technology studies (STS) scholars (focusing on the extension of the laboratory into the world or the world into the laboratory; Muniesa and Callon 2007), working on human-shaped objects required an ongoing tinkering with a sometimes bewildering array of shared, possible and (as it turned out) impossible controls. The chapter will suggest that elegance opens up a distinct way to conceive of the experimental prospects of algorithms under development and their ways of composing humans. Chapter 3 will then develop the insights of Chapter 2 (on humanshaped objects and elegance) in exploring the possibility of rendering the everyday life of algorithms accountable, and the form such accountability might take. Although algorithmic accountability is currently framed in terms of openness and transparency (James 2013; Diakopoulos 2013), the chapter will draw on ethnographic engagements with the algorithmic system under development to show empirically the diffculties (and indeed pointlessness) of achieving this kind of openness. Rather than presenting an entirely pessimistic view, the chapter will suggest that alternative forms of accountability are possible. In place of transparency, the chapter focuses on STS work that pursues the characteristics, agency, power and effect of technologies as the upshot of the network of relations within which a technology is positioned (Latour 1990; Law 1996). Moving away from the idea that algorithms have fxed, essential characteristics or straightforward power or agency, opens up opportunities for developing a distinct basis of accountability in action. While experimentation provides one means to take the algorithmic literature in a different direction, in the system under development, deletion also opened up an analytic space for rethinking algorithms. Deletion became a key priority of the emerging system: just how could terabytes of data be removed from a system, freeing up space, reducing costs while 1 INTRODUCTION: EVERYDAY LIFE AND THE ALGORITHM 15 not threatening the kinds of security-related activities the system was designed to manage? In Chapter 4, the calculative basis for deletion will be used to draw together studies of algorithms with the long-standing STS interest in the calculative. STS work on calculation raises a number of challenging questions. These include how accuracy is constructed (MacKenzie 1993), the accomplishment of numeric objectivity (Porter 1995), trading, exchange and notions of equivalence (Espeland and Sauder 2007; MacKenzie 2009). The kinds of concern articulated in these works is not focused on numbers as an isolated output of calculation. Instead, numbers are considered as part of a series of practical actions involved in, for example, solving a problem (Livingston 2006), distributing resources, accountabilities or responsibilities for action (Strathern 2002), governing a country (Mitchell 2002) and ascertaining a value for some matter (Espeland and Sauder 2007; MacKenzie 2009). Attuning these ideas to algorithms provides insight into not just the content of an algorithm, but its everyday composition, 