they made changes on their laptop, these were projected onto a large screen for meeting participants to discuss. Sometimes two or more computer scientists would gather round the laptop to further 28 D. NEYLAND discuss a point of detail or refne precisely what it was that had just been proposed in the meeting and what this might look like for the system. A typical architecture from one of the later meetings looked like this as shown in Fig. 2.1. By this point in the project, it had been agreed that the existing surveillance cameras in transport hubs operated by SkyPort and StateTrack would feed into the system (these are represented by the black camera-shaped objects on the left). After much discussion, it had been agreed that the digital data from these cameras would need to feed into a media proxy. Both sets of computer scientists were disappointed to learn that the transport hubs to be included in the project had a range of equipment. Some cameras were old, some new, some high defnition and some not, and each came with a variable frame rate (the number of images a second that would fow into the algorithmic system). The media proxy was required to smooth out the inconsistencies in this fow of data in order that the next component in the system architecture would then be able to read the data. Inconsistent or messy data would prove troublesome throughout the project, but in these meetings, it was assumed that the media proxy would work as anticipated. After some discussion, it was agreed that the media proxy would deliver its pristine data to two further system components. These comprised the Event Detection system and the Route Reconstruction Fig. 2.1 System architecture 2 EXPERIMENTATION WITH A PROBABLE HUMAN-SHAPED OBJECT 29 system. The Event Detection system was where the algorithms (including the abandoned luggage algorithm of the Introduction to this book) would sit. The idea was that these algorithms would sift through terabytes of digital video data and use IF-THEN rules to select out those events that security operatives in a train station or airport would need to see. In discussions between the computer scientists and transport frms, it was agreed that abandoned luggage, people moving the wrong way (counter-fow) and people moving into forbidden areas (such as the train track in train stations or closed offces in airports) would be a useful basis for experimentation in the project. These would later become the basis for algorithmically experimenting with the basic idea that relevant images could be detected within fows of digital video data. For now, it was still assumed that algorithms could simply be dropped into this Event Detection component of the architecture. Relevant images would then be passed to the User Interface (UI) with all data deemed irrelevant passed to the Privacy Enhancement System. This was put forward as a key means to achieve the ethical aims of the project. It was suggested that only a small percentage of video data was relevant within an airport or train station, that only a small percentage of data needed to be seen and that the rest of the data could be stored briefy in the Privacy Enhancement System before being securely deleted. It later transpired that detecting relevant images, getting the algorithms to work and securely deleting data were all major technical challenges. But for now, in these early project meetings, it was assumed that the system would work as expected. The Route Reconstruction component was a later addition. This followed on from discussions between the transport frms and the computer scientists, in which it became clear that having an image of, for example, an abandoned item of luggage on its own was not particularly useful in security terms. Transport operatives wanted to know who had left the luggage, where they had come from and where they went next. The theory behind the Route Reconstruction system (although see Chapter 3 for an analysis of this) was that it would be possible to use probabilistic means to trace the history around an event detected by an algorithm. The UI would then give operatives the option to see, for example, how an item of luggage had been abandoned, by whom, with whom they were walking and so on. This would mean that the Privacy Enhancement System would need to store data for as long as these reconstructions were required. It was assumed that most would be performed within 30 D. NEYLAND 24 hours of an incident. Any data deemed relevant and any reconstructions viewed by operatives would be moved out of the auto-deletion feature of the Privacy Enhancement System and kept (in Video Storage). According to the computer scientists, this should still mean that around 95% of data was deleted and that the ethical aims to see less and store less data would be achieved. The meetings were discursive fora where the computer scientists took the lead in making proposals and other participants, mostly the transport frms, offered their 