(nominally and slightly uselessly) oriented towards me as a human actor, the instructions here are for the surveillance system, its software and hardware which must bring about these effects (identifying abandoned luggage) for the system’s human operatives. In this sense, the algorithm is oriented towards human and non-human others. Making sense of the algorithm is not too diffcult (although bringing about its effects turned out to be more challenging as we shall see in subsequent chapters). It is structured through four initial conditions (IF questions) that should lead to four subsequent consequences (THEN rules). The conditions required are: IF an object is identifed within a set area that is classifed as luggage, is separate from a human object, is above a certain distance from a human and for a certain time (with a threshold for distance and time set as required), THEN an ‘abandoned luggage’ alert will be issued. What can the recent academic literature on algorithms tell us about this kind of ordered set of instructions, conditions and consequences? Recent years have seen an upsurge in writing on algorithms. This literature points to a number of notable themes that have helped establish the algorithm as a focal point for contemporary concern. Key has been the apparent power of algorithms (Beer 2009; Lash 2007; Slavin 2011; Spring 2011; Stalder and Mayer 2009; Pasquale 2015) that is given effect in various ways. Algorithms are said to provide a truth for modern living, a means to shape our lives, play a central role in fnancial growth and forms of exchange and participate in forms of governmentality through which we become algorithmic selves. In line with the latter point, it is said we have no option but to make sense of our own lives on the terms of algorithms as we are increasingly made aware of the role, status and infuence of algorithms in shaping data held about us, our employment prospects or our intimate relations. At least two notions of power can be discerned, then, in these accounts. There is a traditional sense of power in which algorithms act to infuence and shape particular effects. In this sense, algorithms might be said to hold power. A second notion of power is more Foucauldian in its inclination, suggesting that algorithms are caught up within a set of relations through which power is exercised. Becoming an algorithmic self is thus an expression of the exercise of this power, but it is not a power held by any particular party. Instead, it is a power achieved through the plaiting of multiple relations. 1 INTRODUCTION: EVERYDAY LIFE AND THE ALGORITHM 7 In either case, the algorithm is presented as a new actor in these forms and relations of power. What can this tells us about our abandoned luggage algorithm? Written on the page, it does not seem very powerful. I do not anticipate that it is about to jump off the page (or screen) and act. It is not mute, but it also does not appear to be the bearer of any great agency. The notion that this algorithm in itself wields power seems unlikely. Yet its ordered set of instructions does seem to set demands. We might then ask for whom or what are these demands set? In making sense of the everyday life of this algorithm, we would want to pursue these demands. If the academic writing on power is understood as having a concern for effect, then we might also want to make sense of the grounds on which these demands lead to any subsequent action. We would have to follow the everyday life of the algorithm from its demands through to accomplishing a sense of how (to any extent) these demands have been met. This sets a cautionary tone for the traditional notion of power. To argue that the demands lead to effects (and hence support a traditional notion of power, one that is held by the algorithm) would require a short-cutting of all the steps. It would need to ignore the importance of the methods through which the algorithm was designed in the frst place, the software and hardware and human operatives that are each required to play various roles, institute further demands and that take action off in a different direction (see Chapters 3 and 5 in particular), before an effect is produced. We would need to ignore all these other actors and actions to maintain the argument that it is the algorithm that holds power. Nonetheless, the Foucauldian sense of power, dispersed through the ongoing plaiting of relations, might still hold some analytic utility here: pursuing the everyday life of the algorithm might provide a means to pursue these relations and the effects in which they participate. At the same time as algorithms are noted as powerful (in the sense of holding power) or part of complex webs of relations through which power is exercised, an algorithmic drama (see Ziewitz 2016; Neyland 2016) plays out through their apparent inscrutability. To be powerful and inscrutable seems to sit centrally within a narrative of algorithmic mystery (just how do they work, 