the model run. An agent-based modeling toolkit, programming language or other implementation provides this capability. To run an agent-based model is to have agents repeatedly execute their behaviours and interactions. This process often does, but is not necessarily modeled to, 14 CM Macal and MJ North Figure 2.1 The structure of a typical agent-based model, as in Sugarscape (Epstein and Axtell, 1996) operate over a timeline, as in time-stepped, activity-based, or discrete-event simulation structures. 2.3 Autonomous agents The single most important defining characteristic of an agent is its capability to act autonomously, that is, to act on its own without external direction in response to situations it encounters. Agents are endowed with behaviours that allow them to make independent decisions. Typically, agents are active, initiating their actions to achieve their internal goals, rather than merely passive, reactively responding to other agents and the environment. There is no universal agreement in the literature on the precise definition of an agent beyond the essential property of autonomy. Jennings (2000) provides a computer science definition of agent that emphasizes the essential characteristic of autonomous behaviour. Some authors consider any type of independent component (software, model, individual, etc) to be an agent (Bonabeau, 2001). In this view, a component’s behaviour can range from simplistic and reactive ‘if-then’ rules to complex behaviours modeled by adaptive artificial intelligence techniques. Other authors insist that a component’s behaviour must be adaptive, able to learn and change its behaviours in response to its experiences, to be called an agent. Casti (1997) argues that agents should contain both base-level rules for behaviour and higher-level rules that are in effect ‘rules to change the rules’. The base-level rules provide more passive responses to the environment, whereas the ‘rules to change the rules’ provide more active, adaptive capabilities. Tutorial on agent-based modeling and simulation 15 From a practical modeling standpoint, based on how and why agent-models are actually built and described in applications, we consider agents to have certain essential characteristics: • An agent is a self-contained, modular, and uniquely identifiable individual. The modularity requirement implies that an agent has a boundary. One can easily determine whether something is part of an agent, is not part of an agent, or is a shared attribute. Agents have attributes that allow the agents to be distinguished from and recognized by other agents. • An agent is autonomous and self-directed. An agent can function indepen- dently in its environment and in its interactions with other agents, at least over a limited range of situations that are of interest in the model. An agent has behaviours that relate information sensed by the agent to its decisions and actions. An agent’s information comes through interactions with other agents and with the environment. An agent’s behaviour can be specified by anything from simple rules to abstract models, such as neural networks or genetic programs that relate agent inputs to outputs through adaptive mechanisms. • An agent has a state that varies over time. Just as a system has a state consisting of the collection of its state variables, an agent also has a state that represents the essential variables associated with its current situation. An agent’s state consists of a set or subset of its attributes. The state of an agent- based model is the collective states of all the agents along with the state of the environment. An agent’s behaviours are conditioned on its state. As such, the richer the set of an agent’s possible states, the richer the set of behaviours that an agent can have. In an agent-based simulation, the state at any time is all the information needed to move the system from that point forward. • An agent is social having dynamic interactions with other agents that influence its behaviour. Agents have protocols for interaction with other agents, such as for communication, movement and contention for space, the capability to respond to the environment, and others. Agents have the ability to recognize and distinguish the traits of other agents. Agents may also have other useful characteristics: • An agent may be adaptive, for example, by having rules or more abstract mechanisms that modify its behaviours. An agent may have the ability to learn and adapt its behaviours based on its accumulated experiences. Learning requires some form of memory. In addition to adaptation at the individual level, populations of agents may be adaptive through the process of selection, as individuals better suited to the environment proportionately increase in numbers. • An agent may be goal-directed, having goals to achieve (not necessarily objectives to maximize) with respect to its behaviours. This allows an agent 16 CM Macal and MJ North • to compare the 