perspective on the emergence of ABMS with respect to scientific developments in computers, complexity and systems thinking and the influence of cellular automata, complexity, cybernetics and chaos. The two articles are fascinating when paired together as a contemporary view of ABMS twinned with historical insights into the evolution of this fascinating field. To begin the key examples of how ABMS has been used to investigate complex systems in different fields, Meng, et al study the use of ABMS to manage hospital-acquired infection, particularly the problems associated with Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), a major problem in patient health during their stay in hospital. An agent-based simulation was developed to study how MRSA was transmitted through patients and to investigate how the risk of transmission could be reduced. The article discusses how the ABMS was designed to determine how the problem might be managed and the risk of transmission reduced. Their approach is briefly Introducing agent-based modeling and simulation 7 compared to DES and SD. Chen and Zhan use ABMS to investigate different approaches to how to evacuate residents from an area. Comparing simulta- neous and staged evacuation strategies where residents are informed at the same time or by zones, the article describes how an agent-based approach can be used to model traffic flows of individual vehicles using microscopic simulation system. The problem of how managers decide how to promote their products, as noted by Günther, et al, involves a process of introducing innovative goods or services to a market which is rather expensive as it is often difficult to assess the impact of a specific marketing strategy on a particular target group. Using a case study of a novel biomass-based fuel, the authors use an ABMS approach to study consumers and social networks to help decision makers to understand different approaches to marketing. Siebers, et al observe that models of the impact of management practices on retail performance are often simplistic and assume low levels of noise and linearity. Their article investigates how discrete-event and ABMS could be used together to overcome these limitations. Using a case study of a retail branch, they study how the two techniques can be used together to discover new insights using a hybrid modeling approach. Jetly, et al address how ABMS can be used to analyze the behaviour of supply chains. In their research they develop and validate a multi-agent simulation of a pharmaceutical supply chain that consists of multiple companies interacting to produce and distribute drugs in a volatile environment. Their model uses historical data across 150 companies involved in the manufacture, supply and distribution of drugs and reflects market changes such as increasing and decreasing market share, mergers and acquisitions. In manufacturing, for example, it can be critical to respond quickly to changes in production processes (such as breakdowns) to minimize the risk of missing production schedules. Merdan et al use ABMS to study how to enhance system flexibility and robustness with respect to the revision and re-optimization of a dynamic production schedule. The financial crises of the late 2000s focussed attention on bank credit risk. Jonsson uses ABMS to investigate the implications of post-credit decision actions made by bankers on bank credit losses induced by lending to corporate clients. The work supports the notion that ABMS should not only be used to simulate financial markets but also to simulate the impact of strategies employed by financial organizations. Rubio-Campillo, et al use ABMS to study infantry tactics in the early 18th Century, in particular during the War of Spanish Succession. They note that although computational models have been used extensively in military/defence operational research, they are rarely seen in studies of military history. Their agent-based simulation shows that more study is required by historians where the results demonstrate that a particular firing system was not the only explanation for the superiority of Allied armies. Chapters 14 and 15 look at wider methodological and pedagological issues in ABMS. Gürcan, et al address the potential problems of verification and validation in ABMS. They observe that the lack of a common approach to 8 Simon JE Taylor verification and validation might be problematic in terms of identifying inaccuracies and/or errors. They propose a generic testing framework for ABMS that is extremely useful in guiding those who are new to ABMS and to providing reflection for experienced developers. In terms of education and experiences of teaching ABMS, Macal and North highlight the differences between ABMS and other forms of simulation. On this basis, they report on some successful approaches to ABMS that they have used successfully in a range of classes and workshops. Finally, to present a balanced view of ABMS against the more 