abandoned), of possible hierarchies (particularly with the coordinators’ interest in selling the technology in the future, see Chapter 6). That the algorithms will be the entities responsible for imposing this hierarchy of relevance on everyday life, suggests they will play a key part in the formulation of this initial step towards deletion, among a complex array of relations also involving other system components, the spaces in which the system operates and so on. This notion of calculative agency builds on a history of STS work on calculation. This includes studies of how accuracy is constructed (MacKenzie 1993), the accomplishment of numeric objectivity (Porter 1995), trading, exchange and notions of equivalence (Espeland and Sauder 2007; MacKenzie 2009), among many other areas. The kinds of concern articulated in these works is not focused on numbers as an isolated output of calculation. Instead, numbers are considered as part of a series of practical actions involved in, for example, solving a problem (Livingston 2006), distributing resources, accountabilities or responsibilities for action (Strathern 2002), governing a country (Mitchell 2002) and ascertaining a value for some matter (Espeland and Sauder 2007; MacKenzie 2009). Taking on these ideas, we can say that our algorithms are not only involved in classifying human-shaped and other objects and their action states, but also their relevance and irrelevance. The algorithms are involved in producing both quantities (a number of alerts, a complex means to parameterise visual data, the production of metadata and bounding boxes) and qualities (issuing or not issuing an alert, deciding between relevance and irrelevance). This is the starting point for the neologism of qualculation (Cochoy 2002; Thrift 2004). For Callon and Law: Qualculation implies qualifcation. Things have to qualify before they can enter a process of qualculation … this can be … done in an endless number of ways. With an endless range of mechanisms and devices. (2005: 715) The work of qualculation, they suggest, operates in three parts: First, the relevant entities are sorted out, detached, and displayed within a single space. Note that the space may come in a wide variety of forms or shapes: a sheet of paper, a spreadsheet, a supermarket shelf, or a court 4 THE DELETING MACHINE AND ITS DISCONTENTS 79 of law – all of these and many more are possibilities. Second, those entities are manipulated and transformed. Relations are created between them, again in a range of forms and shapes: movements up and down lines; from one place to another; scrolling; pushing a trolley; summing up the evidence. And, third, a result is extracted. A new entity is produced. A ranking, a sum, a decision. A judgment. … And this new entity corresponds precisely to – is nothing other than – the relations and manipulations that have been performed along the way. (2005: 715) Detachment, forging of new relations and the production of a judged result provides an initial analytic focus for studying the combined practices of quantifcation and qualifcation. These forms of qualculation can be seen at work in recent discussions of algorithms in academic work. Google search engines (Gillespie 2013) and academic plagiarism software (Introna 2013) suggest that algorithms are involved in the production of combined qualities and quantities in producing results. Taking plagiarism software as an example, we can see that such software would produce an algorithmic qualculation by detaching strings of characters (words, sentences and so on), forging new relations between those characters and other entities (by searching for similar or identical strings of characters in the world of published texts beyond the string) and producing a qualculative result; a basis for judging the similarity and distinctiveness of, for example, a student essay and already published texts. The algorithmic qualculation studied by Introna is a commercial product sold to Universities, which uses detachment, forging of new relations and the production of a result to generate a judgement of the students most likely to have plagiarised their essays. This provides some starting points for thinking through the ways in which our algorithms are involved in the production of outputs—deciding relevance and irrelevance and sending alerts to operatives—that are qualculative. They set out a means to detach data, forge new relations and produce a judged result. This gives us a means to move on from our concerns in Chapters 2 and 3, focused on the means to classify and render those classifcations accountable. But it is only one step forward: it alerts us to the importance of the algorithmic output (relevance or irrelevance), not yet what happens to that output. We need to discover a means to move from qualculation and the production of something—a judgement, a demarcation of relevance, an alert—to nothing—the deletion of irrelevance. 80 D. NEYLAND One starting point 