this system will address these problems) might prove compelling. At the same time, producing a compelling narrative also required that some numbers (technical effcacy) and forms of calculation (how the world of the Report was prepared) remained absent. This continual switching between temporalities—the world as we know it now and the investable future—and accounts—things to be made available and things to be absented—became the means to attempt to compel investors to join the world of relations being built into the algorithmic system; that its market value would arrive. The Everyday Life of the Algorithm Where does this leave our algorithms? As the slightly embarrassing and incapable project partner to be excluded from fnancial calculations, a waste of time and money? And what does this tell us about the drama played out in current academic writing and in the media (see Introduction), in which algorithms are expected to take over our lives, run wild with our data or operate in ways that we cannot see? To address these questions, we need to step back and take a look at the everyday 132 D. NEYLAND lives of our algorithms as they have developed throughout the chapters of this book. We need to see just where our algorithms have got to in life to make sense of their proposed future, their social, economic and technical prospects. In the Introduction, we met the abandoned luggage algorithm and its IF-THEN rules. Little more than a set of step-by-step instructions that set out some conditions and consequences, these rules seemed far removed from the drama of artifcial intelligence, big data and the opaque and inscrutable algorithm. Indeed scrutinising these IF-THEN rules appeared to offer little prospect of a great step forward. They were not about to leap off the page and create great change in the world. In order to understand this algorithm and the drama in which it was expected to participate, we needed to get close to its everyday activity. We needed to know just how this algorithm participated in everyday life, grasped or even composed everyday life and participated in the production of effects. We needed to know something about its prospects of becoming the everyday. It seemed clear that the IF-THEN rules alone would have little consequence. We needed to know who and what the algorithms were working with. Rather than treat the non-human as an incidental fgure (as much of the sociological writing on the everyday has tended to), the algorithm would be accorded a specifc kind of status. As a frst move, we needed to de-centre the human as we know it from the middle of the drama. We could not afford to assume that this was primarily a story to be told by people. We needed to give the algorithm and its technical partners, at least in principle, the same potential agential status as the humans and then we needed to make sense of how they each participated in the composition of effects. We then needed to enter into the varied and only partially integrated everyday lives of the algorithm. In Chapter 2, the human-shaped object and luggage-shaped object (among other objects) provided a focal point for our engagement with the algorithms’ everyday lives. Computer scientists in the project sought an elegant solution that was concise (using only the minimum amount of processing power required) and could solve the problems posed by the project to the satisfaction of various audiences. Here we could get a frst glimpse of how the algorithms might engage in the everyday. Was this grasping everyday life (as if its major constituents were there prior to the work of algorithms, just waiting to be collected and displayed) or composing everyday life (a more fundamental working up from scratch of the objects to be made)? As a surprise to me, an ethnographer with 6 MARKET VALUE AND THE EVERYDAY LIFE OF THE ALGORITHM 133 an inclination towards composition, it turned out to be both. The algorithms were in the business of composing the everyday, with models built from scratch of the parameters of what it meant to be human-shaped, classifying small segments of streams of digital video data into putative humans, and then offering those forward as a means to classify the action states of those objects. Even articulating the everyday on these terms seems like a new form of composition, at least in contrast to how we might go about our everyday lives. But these algorithms also needed to grasp the everyday. They were not free to compose without limits as if there was no a priori world from which these objects could be mustered. The life of the airport, the people and objects in it had to be given a life within the algorithmic system that could be traced back through the airport and train station. Actual distances in centimetres, speeds at which people walk, distances covered, the angle and zoom of cameras among many other features of the everyday had to be accorded a form that enabled them to be grasped. And they had to be grasped in such a 