foregrounding the subsequent analysis of our algorithms and for developing these ideas on demonstration. Integrity and the Algorithm Elements of the technology demonstration literature already appear to lend themselves to an analysis of integrity in, for example, studies of partial fabrication, revelation and concealment. However, it is in the work of Clark and Pinch (1992) on the ‘mock auction con’ that we fnd a rich and detailed study of a type of demonstration tied to questions of integrity. The central point of interest for us in this study is that those running the mock auction con build a routine and: ‘The various repetitive elements of the routine… provide local-historical precedents for understanding what occurs and for the audience determining what (apparently) is likely to follow’ (Clark and Pinch 1992: 169). In this way, the audience to the mock auction are convinced into bidding for ‘bargain’ priced goods that are not what they appear through allusions to the origin of those goods (that perhaps they were stolen, must be sold quickly 98 D. NEYLAND and so on). Being able to point to a context which seems available—but is not—and could provide a reasonable account for buyers to make sense of the ‘bargains’ which seem available—but are not—is central to managing the con (getting people to pay over the odds for low-quality goods). We notice similar themes of things appearing to be what they are not emerging in popular media stories of fakes, whether focused on an individual person or object (such as a fake death,1 fake stamp,2 or fake sportsperson,3 a fake bomb detector4 or a fake doctor accounting for more5 or fewer6 deaths) or a collective fake (where the number of fake documents,7 fossils,8 or the amount of money9 claimed to be fake, takes centre stage).10 In each case, the success of the fake in not being discovered for a time depends on a demonstrative ability to point towards a context which can successfully account for the claimed attributes of the person or object in focus. This is what Garfnkel (1963, 1967) would term the relation of undoubted correspondence between what something appears to be and what it is made to be through successive turns in interaction. We pay what turns out to be an amount that is over the odds for an item in the mock auction con, but what constitutes an amount that is over the odds is a later revelation. At the time of purchase, we have done no more than follow the ordinary routine of paying money for an item. We have done no more than trust the relation of undoubted correspondence. I would like to suggest that this kind of context work where we manage to index or point towards a sense of the scene that enables the relation of undoubted correspondence to hold, can be addressed in terms of integrity. A dictionary defnition of integrity suggests: ‘1. the quality of having strong moral principles. 2. the state of being whole’.11 Thus context work in situations of fakes or cons might be understood as directed towards demonstrating the moral and material integrity required for the relation of undoubted correspondence to hold (where what is required is a feature established within the setting where the interactions take place). We can explore this notion of integrity further in the most developed feld of fakery: fake art. Research in this area (see, for example, Alder et al. 2011) explores famous fakers12 and the shifting attribution of artworks to artists.13 The integrity of artworks in these situations appears to depend on work to establish that a painting is able to demonstrate material properties that support a claim to be genuine.14 In order to convincingly account for the integral ‘whole’ of the painting, material properties are articulated in such a way as to indexically15 point the 5 DEMONSTRATING THE ALGORITHM 99 artwork towards a context (of previous ‘sales’, auction catalogues which defnitively describe ‘this’ artwork as attributed to a particular artist, dust which clearly demonstrates its age). We might note that such indexing is crucial to constituting the context. However, the sometimes arduous efforts to accomplish a context must be split and inverted (Latour and Woolgar 1979) in such a way that the artwork appears to effortlessly point towards ‘its’ context in a way that suggests this context has always been tied to this artwork, enabling the artwork to seem to be what it is. The work to actively construct a context must disappear from view in order for an artwork to effortlessly index ‘its’ context and attest to the ‘whole’ material integrity of the artwork; that it has the necessary age and history of value, ownership and exchange to be the artwork that it is. Furthermore, artworks need to be seen for what they are, with for example, brushstrokes becoming a focal point for audiences of expert witnesses to attest that in the brushstrokes, they can see the style of a particular artist,16 with such witnesses then held in place as supporters of the 