problems, the project team began to move towards idealising the ‘live’ demonstration as a means to increase the chance that the algorithms would successfully pick out abandoned luggage. To begin with the airport operators and computer scientists discussed times when the airport would be quietest, on the basis that the number of people passing between a camera and an item of abandoned luggage might confuse the algorithm: Computer Scientist2: Do we need to test the busy period, or quiet time like now? Project Coordinator: Now I think is good. Computer Scientist1: We need to fnd the best time to test… it cannot be too busy. We need to avoid the busy period because of crowding. Once the ideal timing for a demonstration had been established (late morning or early afternoon, avoiding the early morning, lunchtime or early evening busy periods where multiple fights arrived and departed), other areas of activity that could be idealised were quickly drawn into discussion. It had become apparent in testing the technology that an item of abandoned luggage was identifed by airport staff using the conventional surveillance system on average once an hour. To ensure that an item of luggage was ‘abandoned’ in the quiet period would require that someone known to the project (e.g. an airport employee in plain clothes) ‘abandoned’ an item of luggage. However, if the luggage was to be abandoned by someone known to the project, this opened up further opportunities for idealising the ‘live’ demonstration: 5 DEMONSTRATING THE ALGORITHM 111 Project Coordinator: Is there a set of luggage which will prove better? Computer Scientist1: In general some more colourful will be better. The computer scientist explained that the background subtraction method for Event Detection might work more effectively if objects were in strong contrast to the background (note Fig. 5.3, where the system seems to have ‘lost’ the body of the human-shaped object as it does not contrast with the background and focused on the head as a humanshaped object in its own right). The system could not detect colour as such (it did not recognise yellow, green, brown, etc.), but the computer scientist reasoned that a very colourful bag would stand in contrast to any airport wall, even in shadow, and so might be more straightforward for the algorithms to classify: Computer Scientist2: We could wrap it [the luggage] in the orange [high visibility vest]. Project Coordinator: Not for the fnal review, that will be suspicious. Computer Scientist2: We could use that [pointing at the yellow recycle bin]. Computer Scientist1: That is the right size I think, from a distance it will look practically like luggage. We will check detection accuracy with colour … of the luggage. Maybe black is worst, or worse than others, we would like to check with a different colour. We should test the hypothesis. Computer Scientist2: What if we wrap the luggage in this [yellow printed paper]. Computer Scientist1: I think yes. Computer Scientist2: Would you like to experiment with both bags? Computer Scientist1: Yes, we can check the hypothesis. For the next run through of the test, one of the project team members’ luggage was wrapped in paper to test the hypothesis that this would increase the likelihood of the object being detected by the algorithm (Fig. 5.5). The hypothesis proved to be incorrect as the results for both items of luggage were broadly similar and continued to be disappointing. However, it seemed that the algorithms could always successfully accomplish background subtraction, classify objects as human-shaped and luggage-shaped and create an alert based on their action state as separate for a certain time and over a certain distance in one, very tightly 112 D. NEYLAND delineated location in the airport. Here the IF-THEN rules of the algorithm seemed to work. The location provided a further basis to idealise the ‘live’ demonstration, except that the person ‘abandoning’ the luggage had to be very precise. In initial tests the computer scientists and the person dropping the luggage had to remain on their phones, precisely coordinating and adjusting where the luggage should be positioned. It seemed likely that a lengthy phone conversation in the middle of a demonstration and continual adjustment of the position of luggage would be noticed by project funders. The project team discussed alternatives to telephone directions: Project Coordinator: We should make a list of exact points where it works perfectly, I can go with a marker and mark them. Computer Scientist1: Like Xs, X marks the spot. Project Coordinator: But with cleaning, in one month it will be erased. We want a precise place, the reviewers will stay in the room to observe so they won’t see if it’s marked. Computer Scientist1: We can put some tape on the foor, not visible from the camera. Fig. 5.5 Luggage is idealised 5 DEMONSTRATING THE ALGORITHM 113 After two days of rehearsal, the project coordinator was satisfed that the 