for augmenting the notion of qualculation by taking something and nothing into account is provided by the work of Hetherington and Lee (2000) on zero. They suggest that zero was introduced into western European mathematics and economics in approximately the fourteenth century. Zero provided the basis for a numeric logic of order at the same time as disrupting conventions for ordering, disrupting by connecting otherwise unconnected entities (nothing and the progressive accumulation of something from the number one upwards; as well as at a later date, providing the basis for counting downwards with the introduction of negative numbers to Europe from around the seventeenth century) and came to be seen as generating a new order. This despite zero itself being an underdetermined fgure, both a sign on its own (signifying something of no value) and a metasign of order (providing for the signifcance of subsequent numbers or indicating rank in the decimal system). Hetherington and Lee suggest that: ‘What [zero] reveals… is that very basic mathematical ordering practices are themselves dependent on a fgure that refuses to adopt a singular position in their semiotic order’ (177). Following on from this, we might think of our emerging algorithmic system for deletion not just as a focus for qualculation (doing something), but as a system that refuses to occupy a singular position (both something and nothing, doing and undoing data and its relations). However, Hetherington and Lee (2000) go further and suggest that zero, as something and nothing, can also be considered a blank fgure, something that: ‘hybridises presence and absence rather than two forms of different presence’ (175). Following from this, an intervention in an order—such as the introduction of zero—can be considered a blank fgure when its nature is underdetermined, uncertain, unclear, troubling, provokes tension and generates not just a connection between preexisting entities, but provides a basis for further investigation of those entities now connected. In this way, an algorithmic system might introduce an accountable nothing (the deletion of data) that would not just create (or remove) connections between entities, but also create new troubling questions (e.g. regarding the extent or adequacy or consequences of deletion). Whereas studies of qualculation appear to depend on the emergence of a result from a singular order (‘a result is extracted’), the blank fgure suggests a more persistent instability or multiplicity of order. In this way, the work of Hetherington and Lee sensitises us to the possibility of disruptions to conventions of order through simultaneous somethings and nothings; zero which provides a basis for reordering 4 THE DELETING MACHINE AND ITS DISCONTENTS 81 something (the rules and conventions for order such as negative numbers) and for considering nothing (a more literal zero). Following this argument, to introduce accountable deletion might be to generate instability and questions as much as order. The nature of data, of algorithms and their associations might be called into question, and so might the relations that generated the call for accountability in the frst place. Instead of the algorithmic drama in current academic research that I noted in the Introduction and Chapter 2, we might have nothing (deletion), but we might also have a generative something (new accountability relations through which the deletion is demonstrated alongside diffcult questions regarding what constitutes adequate deletion). The generative dissonance or profound change in ordering provoked by the blank fgure—the something and nothing—as we shall see, attains a brutish presence: its adequacy as both something and nothing is diffcult to pin down and yet vital to the marketable future of the technology under development. The suggestion in policy discussions around deletion and accountably accomplishing deletion are that in some way an algorithm can be limited (even through another algorithm). Yet taking on board the work of Cochoy, Callon, Law, Hetherington and Lee suggests that when a new qualculative form is constituted and inserted into sociomaterial relations, it can constitute a something and nothing, a disruption and form of disorder, a set of questions and not only a limitation. The production of something and nothing and its accountable accomplishment clearly requires detailed investigation. This chapter will now begin this investigation particularly attuned to the possibility that deletion might generate blank fgures, disorder as well as order. Attempts to accountably demonstrate that nothing has been created from something will be pursued, wherein I will suggest that the certainties of qualculation become overwhelmed by the disruptive fgure of what might constitute deletion. Deletion and the Challenges of Nothing Deletion had become a notable cause for concern in policy debates in the European Union (set out above) and in academic literature that 