action states, issuing alerts and demarcating relevant from irrelevant footage were major concerns for the CHAPTER 6 Market Value and the Everyday Life of the Algorithm © The Author(s) 2019 D. Neyland, The Everyday Life of an Algorithm, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-00578-8_6 124 D. NEYLAND project participants. This built on the problems experienced in Chapter 4 with the deleting machine that seemed to always leave behind orphan frames. Taken together, this suggests that our algorithms might struggle to become the everyday of the airport and train station at least in their current form. The system architecture, the individual components, the relevancy detection algorithms, the IF-THEN rules might all need more work. And for the computer scientists from University 1 and 2, this was no more or less than they expected: their work in this project built on a decade of research carried out by themselves and colleagues that would extend beyond the fxed time frame of this project into future efforts. Our algorithms might live on in modifed form in whatever the computer scientists or other colleagues chose to do next. The project coordinators faced a different question. For the coordinators of the project—a European-based consulting frm—the possibilities of developing an ethical, algorithmic surveillance system to take to the market, had provided a compelling reason for their involvement in the project. Deletion, relevancy detection and algorithmic experimentation each had a partial orientation for the coordinators towards a future market. Building a value for the technology following trouble with relevancy detection, object classifcation, object tracking, background subtraction, the issuing of alerts and the deletion system appeared challenging. The coordinators instead looked to switch the basis on which the future of the technology was settled. Recognising that the system’s results in demonstrations to end users (see Chapter 5) and the deletion system’s audit log (see Chapter 4) would generate a continuing output of demonstrative partial failure, the coordinators instead sought to build an alternative basis for relations with the world beyond the technology. This set of relations would seek to map out a new market value for the technology. In place of technical effcacy as a basis for selling the system, willing customers were constituted as a means to attract others to (potentially) invest in the system. In this chapter, I will suggest that building a world of (potential) customers to attract investors required a broad number of participants, with market trends, sizes and values separated out and made subject to calculation. To do market work and build an investment value required this careful plaiting of relations. I will suggest that the efforts required to shift the focus from technical effcacy to investment can be considered through ideas of performativity. 6 MARKET VALUE AND THE EVERYDAY LIFE OF THE ALGORITHM 125 The chapter will begin with a brief digression through recent writing on performativity, before looking at the coordinators’ work to draw investors into new relations with the algorithmic system. I will suggest that these relations operated in a similar manner to the object classifcation of our algorithms: investors, territories, future sales and market size had to be separated out and qualifed, calculated and pacifed in order that these new relations of investment might be developed. The chapter will end with a discussion of where we have reached in the everyday life of our algorithms. Performativity Performativity has played an important part in the recent science and technology studies (STS) turn towards markets and marketing (see, for example, MacKenzie et al. 2007; MacKenzie 2008). The argument draws on the work of Austin (1962) and his notion of a performative utterance or speech act. Cochoy (1998) suggests a performative utterance can be understood as a statement ‘that says and does what it says simultaneously’ (p. 218). MacKenzie suggests a distinction can be made between utterances that do something and those that report on an already existing state of affairs (2008: 16). The most frequently quoted example, drawing on the work of Austin (1962), is the utterance ‘I declare this meeting open’. Such an utterance is said to describe and bring into being the state that it describes—it is a speech act. Developing this further, Cochoy (1998) suggests: ‘a performative science is a science that simultaneously describes and constructs its subject matter. In this respect, the ‘performation’ of the economy by marketing directly refers to the double aspect of marketing action: conceptualising and enacting the economy at the same time’ (p. 218). From this, we could understand that marketing brings the matter it describes into being. For other STS scholars, the focus is attuned to markets rather than marketing. For example, Callon suggests: ‘economics in the broadest sense of the term performs, 