and their environment. For example, in the scenario that began this introduction, the A&E Unit could be represented by all the three techniques. However, the queuing network structure that most A&E Units have maps more easily to DES. A DES of an A&E Unit could be used to investigate appropriate staffing levels to reduce patient waiting time. A SD model could then be used to study the relationships within the host hospital to provide those staffing levels with respect to the rest of the hospital as these could be appropriately represented as stocks and flows. As will be seen, it might be argued that ABMS is more difficult to use in these two M&S scenarios. However, if we wanted to study the response time of an ambulance service, where the correct representation of ambulance behaviour and the impact of the service’s environment, then ABMS allows us to conveniently model and simulate these elements. For balance the following literature illustrates how both DES and SD can be applied to the same settings. Eatock, et al (2011) use DES, Lane, Monefeldt and Rosenhead (2000) use SD and Laskowski and Shamir (2009) use ABMS to model an A&E Unit. Gunal and Pidd (2011) use DES and Harper (2002) uses SD to model wider hospital performance; Meng, et al (2010 and Chapter 4 of this book) use ABMS to study hospital-wide infection management. With new advancements in distributed simulation and simulation software supporting multi-paradigm modeling it is becoming increasingly easier to create hybrid simulations consisting of combinations of DES, SD and ABMS. Swinerd and McNaught (2014) discuss the use of ABMS and SD to model the diffusion of technological innovation, Djanatliev, et al (2014) investigate ABMS and SD for health technology assessments, Anagnostou, et al (2013) demonstrate how ABMS and DES can be used for simulating emergency services, and Viana, et al (2014) use DES and SD to model infection spread. For further examples of simulation in healthcare, Brailsford, et al (2009), Mustafee, Katsaliaki and Taylor (2010) and Gunal and Pidd (2010) provide reviews of a wide range of examples. Taylor, et al (2012), Taylor, et al (2013a), Taylor, et al (2013b) and Taylor, et al (2013c) discuss contemporary grand challenges for M&S and consider the future of ABMS. 4 Simon JE Taylor What is an agent-based model? An agent-based model typically has four aspects: • A set of autonomous agents—each agent has a set of attributes that describe the state of the agent and a set of specified behaviours (rules that govern the behaviour of the agent) that define how an agent behaves in response to changes in its environment and, perhaps, towards a set of goals or objectives (eg, in an evacuation scenario we might be interested in understanding how people might leave a building and therefore wish to model individuals as agents. Their attributes might represent the speed at a person moves, the location of the person in the building; their behaviours might be the strategy that they use to move along corridors, how confused they might be, etc; and their goals might be which exit they are aiming for). • A set of agent relationships—each relationship defines how each agent interacts with other agents and its environment. This also implies how each agent is ‘connected’ to other agents, that is an ‘underlying topology of connectedness’ (eg, how people interact as they attempt to leave the building). • The agent’s environment—the ‘world’ in which the agents exist, that is the minimum set of ‘global’ variables or structures that are needed to define how the agents react to their environment (eg, the fire alarm, the building that the students are walking through, the capacity of each corridor, etc). • A ’system’ is therefore composed of the set of agents, the environment and their relationships. A system has a clearly defined boundary with well- defined inputs and outputs (if appropriate) (eg, the building that is being studied for evacuation). An agent-based model is created using an appropriate programming language, software tool or toolkit such as those described in the articles of this OR Essentials. These tools typically provide facilities to simulate an agent-based model by repeatedly executing the behaviours and interactions of the agents. For example, in our evacuation simulation, each student agent would have a description of how they react to the alarm, to other students and the various parts of the building. The first cycle of simulation would simulate the first movement of the students towards an exit and each student’s reaction to other students. Each subsequent cycle would continue to progress the students through the building. When would it be appropriate to use ABMS rather than alternative techniques? There are many views expressed on this matter (see, for example, Brailsford (2014); Chapter 16 of this collection). However, the decision when to use an ABMS approach is often confused with when to use ABMS technology. For example, 