relevant and irrelevant entities. If this structuring and division of various entities (humans, luggage, time, space, relevance and irrelevance) occurred straightforwardly and endured, it might be tempting to argue that this is where the power of algorithms is located or made apparent. A straightforward short cut would be to argue that the algorithm structures the social world and through this kind of statement we could then fnd what Lash (2007) refers to as the powerful algorithm and what Beer (2009) suggests are algorithms’ ability to shape the social world. We could argue that the outputs of the system demonstrated an asymmetrical distribution of the ability to cause an effect—that it is through the algorithm that these divisions between relevant and irrelevant data can be discerned. However, such a short cut requires quite a jump from the algorithmic IF-THEN rules to their consequences. It ignores the everyday life in which the algorithm must be a successful participant for these kinds of effects to be brought about. If instead we pay attention to the everyday work required 2 EXPERIMENTATION WITH A PROBABLE HUMAN-SHAPED OBJECT 33 for algorithmic conditions and consequences to be achieved, what we fnd is not that the algorithm structures the social world. Instead, experimentation takes place (and fails, takes place again, things are reworked and then sometimes fail again or work to a small extent) to constitute the conditions required for the system to participate in the production of effects or the system gets partially redrawn to ft new versions of the conditions. This continual experimentation, rewriting and efforts to achieve conditions and consequences are not only central to the work of computer scientists but also crucial to the life of the algorithm. It is where the distinction between relevant and irrelevant data is continuously in the process of being made for the system. It is where the human-shaped object is drawn up and pursued. It is where the nature of things is made at stake. The experimental basis designed to enable the algorithm to participate in the everyday life of the airport and train station had, what was for the ethnographer, a peculiar organising principle. The computer scientists of University 1 and University 2 talked of ‘elegance’ during the meetings around system architecture, huddled around the laptop on which they made updates to the system and in the subsequent humanshaped object experimentation that we will now consider. This seemed like an odd term to me in a series of meetings that mostly involved quite specialist, technical language. Elegance seemed to come from a different feld—perhaps fashion or furniture design. What could it mean for the computer scientists to talk of elegance, or rather how was the term elegance given meaning by the practical work of the computer scientists? Ian Glynn (2010) captures something of what elegance can mean in his study of experiments and mathematical proofs. Glynn suggests elegance can be found in scientifc and mathematical solutions which combine concision, persuasion and satisfaction. As I followed the experimentation of the computer scientists, this approach to elegance seemed useful for making sense of the ways they discussed system architecture. The composition of the different system components, their location in relation to each other within the system architecture and how they might talk to each other was each discernible as a discussion focused on what might be elegant. However, this came to the fore even more strongly with the human-shaped object. What would count as concise, persuasive and satisfying as a human-shaped object seems a useful way to group together much of the discussion that took place. 34 D. NEYLAND For the IF conditions of the Event Detection algorithms to be achieved required coordinated work to bring together everyday competences (among surveillance operatives and computer scientists), the creation of new entities (including lines of code), the further development of components (from algorithmic rules to new forms of classifcation) and the development of a sense of what the everyday life was in which the algorithms would participate (in the train station or airport). It also required consideration of the changes that might come about in that everyday life. Elegance could be noted as the basis for this coordinated work in the following way. The frst point of contention was the technical basis for developing a means to classify putative objects. Readers will recall that frst identifying a putative object is important within the stream of digital video data in order that other data can be ignored. What might count as a human-shaped object or a luggage-shaped object as a precise focus for classifcation was vital. However, what might count as a concise means to achieve this classifcation was an important but slightly different objective. As project meetings progressed, it became clear that the amount of 