fnal ethics board meeting. And the intersection of account-ability and accountability was not simply a bringing together of different registers of account, as if two different forms of account could, for example, sit comfortably together on the same page in a report to the ethics board. The intersecting of account-ability and accountability itself became a productive part of this activity, with questions of accountability (e.g. how much has changed in these algorithms?) challenging the account-able order of the algorithmic system and the 3 ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE ALGORITHM 67 more or less orderly sense-making practices of the algorithmic system being used to draw up more precise questions of accountability. The algorithms’ means to participate in the account-ability of everyday life in the airport became the means to make the algorithms available to this different sense of accountability through the ethics board. Conclusion In this chapter, we can see that our algorithms are beginning to participate in everyday life in more detailed ways. They are not only classifying putative human-shaped and luggage-shaped objects. They are also taking part in the production of accounts that make sense of the actions in which those objects are also taking part: being abandoned, moving the wrong way, moving into a forbidden space. This participation in the account-able order of everyday life is an achievement based on years of work by the computer scientists and signifcant efforts in the project to work with operatives to fgure out their competences and how a system might be built that respects and augments these competences while also accomplishing the project’s ethical aims. Such aims were also the key grounds for intersecting this increasing participation in the account-ability of everyday life with the sense of accountability pursued by the ethics board. Regular meetings, minutes, publicly available reports, the development of questions into design protocols for the emerging system, creating new bases for experimentation, each formed ways in which accountability could take shape—as a series of questions asked on behalf of future data subjects. In a similar manner to the literature that opened this chapter, this more formal process of accountability came with its own issues. Unanticipated questions arose, the system being subjected to account kept changing, some things didn’t work for a time, and my own role in accountability came under scrutiny. In place of any counter expectation that algorithms could be made accountable in any straightforward, routine manner, came this series of questions and challenges. What, then, can be said about future considerations of algorithms and questions of accountability? First, it seemed useful in this project to engage in detail with the account-able order of the algorithmic system. This displaced a formal approach to accountability, for example, carrying out an audit of algorithmic activity, with an in-depth account of the sense-making activities of the system. Second, however, this approach to account-ability did nothing on its own to address questions 68 D. NEYLAND of accountability—what the concerns might be of future data subjects. Intersecting different registers of account through the ethics board was itself a signifcant project task and required resources, time and effort. Third, the intersection of account-ability and accountability was productive (raising new questions for the project to take on), but also challenging (requiring careful consideration of the means through which different views could be managed). With growing calls for algorithmic systems to be accountable, open to scrutiny and open to challenge, these three areas of activity set out one possible means for future engagement, intersecting the account-able and the accountable and managing the consequences. But the challenges for our algorithms did not end here. Although we now fnish this chapter with a sense that our algorithms are grasping everyday life in more detail, are more fully participating in everyday life through forms of account-ability and are even beginning to shape everyday life by causing the operatives to reconsider their everyday competences, there is still some way to go. The algorithms have only reached an initial experimental stage. Next, they need to be tested in real time, in real places. They need to prove that they can become everyday. The system components need to prove to the world that they can interact. The Privacy Enhancement System needs to show that it can select and delete relevant data. As we will see in the next chapter, deletion is not straightforward. And as we will see subsequently, real-time testing (Chapter 5) is so challenging, that the possibility of building a market value for the technology needs to be re-thought (Chapter 6). But then everyday life is never easy. References Beer, D. (2009). Power Through the Algorithm? Participatory Web Cultures and the Technological 