warnings on systems and practices of accounting and accountability. For example, Power (1997) suggests in his formative audit society argument that the motifs of audit have become essential conditions for meeting the aims of regulatory programmes that problematically reorient the goals of organisations. This work draws on and feeds into neo-Foucauldian writing on governmentality (Ericson et al. 2003; Miller 1992; Miller and O’Leary 1994; Rose 1996, 1999). Here, the suggestion is made that, for example, government policies (from assessing value for money in public sector spending, through to the ranking of university research outputs) provide rationales to be internalised by those subject to accounts and accountabilities. The extent and adequacy of the take-up of these rationales then forms the basis for increasing scrutiny of the accounts offered by people or organisations in response. This sets in train a program of responsibilisation and individualisation whereby subjects are expected to deliver on the terms of the rationale, while taking on the costs of doing so, allowing ‘authorities … [to] give effect to government ambitions’ (Rose and Miller 1992: 175). For Foucault (1980), this provides: ‘A superb formula: power exercised continuously and for what turned out to be a minimal cost’ (1980: 158). In this literature, the endurance of accounts and accountabilities is explained through the structured necessity of repetition. That is, alongside effciency, accounts and accountabilities become part of an ordered temporality of repeated assessment in, for example, performance measurements where the same organisations and processes are subject to accounts and accountabilities at set intervals in order to render the organisation assessable (Power 1997; Rose 1999; Rose and Miller 1992). For Pentland, this repetition forms audit rituals which have: ‘succeeded in transforming chaos into order’ (1993: 606). In particular, accounts and accountabilities have introduced a ‘ritual which transforms the fnancial statements of corporate management from an inherently untrustworthy state into a form that the auditors and the public can be comfortable 48 D. NEYLAND with’ (1993: 605). Efforts to make algorithms accountable might thus need to consider the kinds of rituals these procedures could introduce, the power relations they could institute and the problematic steering of organisational goals that could result. This literature on the formal processes and repetitive procedures for accounting and accountabilities suggests emerging calls for algorithmic accountability would provide a fertile ground for the continued expansion of accounts and accountabilities into new territories. Procedures for accountability might expand for as long as there are new organisations, technologies or audiences available, presenting new opportunities for carrying out the same processes (see, e.g., Osborne and Rose [1999] on the expansion of governmentality; also see Ferguson and Gupta [2002] on the creation of the individual as auditor of their own ‘frm’). Accounts and distributions of accountability then become an expectation, something that investors, regulators and other external audiences expect to see. Being able to account for the accountability of a frm can then become part of an organisation’s market positioning as transparent and open, as ethical, as taking corporate social responsibility seriously (Drew 2004; Gray 1992, 2002; Neyland 2007; Shaw and Plepinger 2001). Furthermore, as Mennicken (2010) suggests, once accountability becomes an expectation, auditors, for example, can seek to generate markets for their activities. Alternatively, the outcomes of forms of accounts and accountabilities become market-oriented assets in their own right, as is the case with media organisations promoting their league tables as one way to attract custom (such as the Financial Times MBA rankings, see Free et al. 2009). As we will see in Chapter 6, being able to promote the ethical algorithmic system as accountable became key to the project that features in this book, as a way to build a market for the technology. This may sound somewhat foreboding: accountability becomes a ritual expectation, it steers organisational goals in problematic ways, and it opens up markets for the processes and outputs of accountability. Yet what we can also see in Chapter 2 is that what an algorithm is, what activities it participates in, and how it is entangled in the production of future effects, is subject to ongoing experimentation. Hence, building a ritual for algorithmic accountability seems somewhat distant. It seems too early, and algorithms seem too diverse, to introduce a single and universal, ritualised form of algorithmic accountability. It also seems too early to be able to predict the consequences of algorithmic accountability. A broad range of consequences could ensue from 3 ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE ALGORITHM 49 algorithmic accountability. For example, accounts 