a User Interface with no general visual component. This was both made to make sense as a demonstrable, account-able response to the ethical aims (to reduce visibility) and constituted a visually and materially available form for these otherwise somewhat general aims. In place of the standard video surveillance bank of monitors continually displaying images, operatives would be presented only with text alerts (Fig. 3.1) produced via our algorithms’ ‘IF-THEN’ rules. An operative would then be given the opportunity to click on a text alert and a short video of several seconds that had created the alert would appear on the operative’s screen. The operative would then have the option of deciding whether the images did indeed portray an event worthy of further scrutiny or could be ignored. An operative could then tag data as relevant (and it would then be stored) or irrelevant (and it would then be deleted; see Chapter 4). The User Interface could then participate in the accomplishment of the ethical aims to see less and store less. It would also provide a means for our algorithms to become competent participants in the account-able order of interactions. The User Interface would provide the means for the algorithms to display to operatives that they were participating in the constitutive expectancies of making sense of a scene in the airport or train station. They 3 ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE ALGORITHM 57 were participating in establishing the shared or congruent relevance of specifc images—that an image of a human-shaped object was not just randomly selected by the algorithm, but displayed its relevance to the operative as an alert, as something to which they needed to pay attention and complete a further turn in interaction. The algorithm was displaying its competence in being a participant in everyday life. This might seem like a big step forward for our algorithms. It might even mean a step from experimentation towards actual implementation. But the operatives and their managers swiftly complained when they were shown the User Interface: How could they maintain security if all they got to see was (e.g.) an image of an abandoned item of luggage? As I mentioned in Chapter 2, to secure the airport or train station the operatives suggested that they needed to know who had abandoned the luggage, when and where did they go? A neatly cropped image of an item of luggage with a red box around it, a human-shaped object within a bounding box that had moved into a forbidden space or been recorded moving the wrong way, was limited in its ability to take part in making sense of the scene. The algorithms’ ability to take part in everyday life by participating in holding everyday life to account was questioned. As such, the emerging account-able order of the algorithmic system and the design decisions which acted as both a response to, and gave form to the project’s ethical aims, were subject to ongoing development, particularly in relation to operatives’ everyday competences. This led to discussion among project participants, the computer scientists and StateTrack and SkyPort in particular, about how surveillance Fig. 3.1 Text alerts on the user interface 58 D. NEYLAND operatives went about making sense of, for example, abandoned luggage. Everyday competences that might otherwise never be articulated needed to be drawn to the fore here. Operatives talked of the need to know the history around an image, what happened after an item had been left, and with whom people had been associating. Computer scientists thus looked to develop the Route Reconstruction component of the system. This was a later addition to the system architecture as we saw in Chapter 2. The University 1 team of computer scientists presented a digital surveillance Route Reconstruction system they had been working on in a prior project (using a learning algorithm to generate probabilistic routes). Any person or object once tagged relevant, they suggested, could be followed backwards through the stream of video data (e.g. where had a bag come from prior to being abandoned, which human had held the bag) and forwards (e.g. once someone had dropped a bag, where did they go next). This held out the potential for the algorithms and operatives to take part in successively and account-ably building a sense for a scene. From a single image of, say, an abandoned item of luggage, the algorithm would put together histories of movements of human-shaped objects and luggage-shaped objects and future movements that occurred after an item had been left. As operatives clicked on these histories and futures around the image of abandoned luggage, both operatives and algorithms became active participants in successively building shared relevance around the image. Histories and futures could become a part of the constitutive expectancies of relations between algorithms and operatives. Route Reconstruction would work by using the background maps of fxed attributes in the train 