suggests that the nature of matters—questions of ontology—are accomplished. In this line of thought, it is not that ‘ontology is given before practices, but that different practices enable different versions of the world. This turns ontology from a pre-condition for politics into something that is, itself, always at stake’ (Mol 2006: 2). The analytic move here is not just to treat the algorithm as participant, but to understand that participation provides a grounds for establishing the nature of things, a nature that is always at stake. Being at stake is the political condition through which the nature of things is both settled and unsettled. But what does this tell us of the everyday? Pollner’s (1974) account of mundane reason points us towards a detailed consideration of the interactions through which the everyday is accomplished. Pollner draws on the Latin etymology of the word mundane (mundus) to explore how matters are not just ordinary or 12 D. NEYLAND pervasive, but become of the world. What is settled and unsettled, what is at stake, is this becoming. For Pollner, the pertinent question in his study of US court decisions on speeding is how putative evidence that a car was driving at a certain speed can become of the world of the court charged with making a decision about a drivers’ possible speeding offence. Through what organisational relations, material stuff, responsibilities taken on, and accountabilities discharged, can potential evidence come to be of the world (a taken for granted, accepted feature) of the court’s decision-making process? Pollner suggests that in instances of dispute, accountability relations are arranged such that a car and its driver cannot be permitted to drive at both 30 and 60 miles per hour simultaneously—the evidence must be made to act on behalf of one of the accounts (30 or 60), not both. Selections are made in order to demarcate what will and what will not count, what will become part of the world of the court and what will be dismissed, at the same time as responsibilities and accountabilities for action are distributed and their consequences taken on. Making sense of the algorithm, its enactment of data, its responsibilities and accountabilities on Pollner’s terms, sets some demanding requirements for our study. How does the abandoned luggage algorithm that we initially encountered, insist that data acts on behalf of an account as human or luggage, as relevant or irrelevant, as requiring an alert and a response or not? Although these actions might become the everyday of the algorithm, they might be no trivial matter for the people and things of the airport or train station where the algorithm will participate. The status of people and things will be made always and already at stake by the very presence of the algorithm. This further points towards a distinct contribution of the algorithm: not just participant, not just at stake in becoming, but also a means for composing the everyday. To return to Latour’s no-longer-missing masses, he gives consideration to an automated door closer—known as a groom—that gently closes the door behind people once they have entered a room. The groom, Latour suggests, can be treated as a participant in the action in three ways: frst, it has been made by humans; second, it substitutes for the actions of people and is a delegate that permanently occupies the position of a human; and third, it shapes human action by prescribing back what sort of people should pass through the door. (1992: 160) 1 INTRODUCTION: EVERYDAY LIFE AND THE ALGORITHM 13 Prescribing back is the means through which the door closer acts on the human, establishing the proper boundaries for walking into rooms and the parameters for what counts as reasonably human from the groom’s perspective (someone with a certain amount of strength, ability to move and so on). Prescribing acts on everyday life by establishing an engineered morality of what ought to count as reasonable in the human encounters met by the groom. This makes sense as a premise: to understand the abandoned luggage algorithm’s moves in shaping human encounters, we might want to know something of how it was made by humans, how it substitutes for the actions of humans and what it prescribes back onto the human (and these will be given consideration in Chapter 3). But as Woolgar and Neyland (2013) caution, the certainty and stability of such prescribing warrants careful scrutiny. Prescribing might, on the one hand, form an engineer’s aspiration (in which case its accomplishment requires scrutiny) or, on the other hand, might be an ongoing basis for action, with humans, doors and grooms continuously involved in working through the possibilities for action, with the breakdown of the groom throwing open the possibility of further actions. In this second sense, prescribing is never more than contingent (in which case its accomplishment also requires scrutiny!). Collectively these ideas seem to encourage the 