algorithmic become the everyday? The chapter ends by setting out the structure of the rest of the book. Keywords Science and Technology Studies · Accountability · Opacity · Transparency · Power · The Everyday Opening An algorithm is conventionally defned as ‘a process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem-solving operations, especially by a computer’.1 In this sense, an algorithm strictly speaking is nothing more CHAPTER 1 Introduction: Everyday Life and the Algorithm © The Author(s) 2019 D. Neyland, The Everyday Life of an Algorithm, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-00578-8_1 2 D. NEYLAND than the ordering of steps that a combination of software and hardware might subsequently put into operation. It might seem odd, then, to write a book about the everyday life of a set of instructions. What life might the instructions have led, into what romance or crime might the instructions have become entangled, what disappointments might they have had? These seem unlikely questions to pose. For an ethnographer, they also seem like questions that would be diffcult to pursue. Even if the instructions were engaged in a variety of different social interactions, where do these take place and how could I ever get to know them? A quick perusal of the instructions hanging around in my house reveals a slightly crumpled paper booklet on my home heating system, two sets of colourful Lego manuals setting out how to build a vehicle, and a form with notes on how to apply for a new passport. I have no idea how the latter arrived in my house or for whom it is necessary. But it is clear in its formality and precision. I also know my sons will shortly be home from school and determined in their efforts to build their new Lego. And I am aware, but slightly annoyed, by the demands set by the heating instructions that suggest my boiler pressure is too high (above 1.5 bars; after a quick Google, it turns out that a bar is the force required to raise water to a height of 10 metres). The pressure needs to be reduced, and I have known this all week and not acted on it. The instructions have annoyed me by instilling a familiar sense of inadequacy in my own (in)ability to manage my domestic affairs—of course, the instructions provide numbers, a written diagram, even some words, but their meanings and my required response remain out of reach. In a sense, then, we are already witnessing the social life in which these instructions participate. The passport form has arrived from somewhere, for someone, and is clear in its formal status. The Lego was a gift and will no doubt become the centre of my children’s attention. And the heating system might break down if I don’t do something reasonably soon. These point to some of the cornerstones for contemporary living. Travel and transport, government and formal bureaucracy, gift giving and learning, domestic arrangements and shelter are all witness-able through the instructions and the life in which they participate. As with other participants in social life, the instructions are demanding, occasionally quite austere and/or useless. Making sense of these everyday entanglements might be quite important if we were interested in the everyday life of instructions, but is this the kind of everyday life in which algorithms participate? 1 INTRODUCTION: EVERYDAY LIFE AND THE ALGORITHM 3 Reading through the ever-expanding recent academic literature on algorithms, the answer would be a qualifed no. The everyday, humdrum banalities of life are somewhat sidelined by an algorithmic drama.2 Here, the focus is on algorithmic power, the agency held by algorithms in making decisions over our futures, decisions over which we have no control. The algorithms are said to be opaque, their content unreadable. A closely guarded and commodifed secret, whose very value depends upon retaining their opacity. All we get to see are their results: the continuing production of a stream of digital associations that form consequential relations between data sets. We are now data subjects or, worse, data derivatives (Amoore 2011). We are rendered powerless. We cannot know the algorithm or limit the algorithm or challenge its outputs. A quick read through the news (via a search ‘algorithm’) reveals further numerous stories of the capacity of algorithms to dramatically transform our lives. Once again, the humdrum banalities of the everyday activities that the instructions participated in are pushed aside in favour of a global narrative of unfolding, large-scale change. In the UK, the Guardian newspaper tells us that large frms are increasingly turning to algorithms to sift through job applications,3 using personality tests at the point of application as a way to pick out patterns of answers and steer applicants towards rejection or the next phase of the application process. What is at stake is not the effectiveness of the algorithms, as little data is collected on whether or not the algorithms are making the 