existing algorithms as a means to address concerns regarding the expansion of algorithmic surveillance). Articulating the aims in ethical demonstrations 5 DEMONSTRATING THE ALGORITHM 115 constituted the grounds for a form of material-moral integrity—that the likelihood of a specifc materially mediated future emerging through the algorithmic system could be adjudged through the demonstrations. The demonstrations thus involved bringing a material-moral world into being by clearly indexing the certainty and achievability of that world, creating a relation of undoubted correspondence between the everyday life of the demonstration and the future everyday that it pointed towards. Ethical experts were drawn into this process of bringing the world into being so that they might attest to the strength, veracity and reliability of the demonstrated world to which they had been witness. In demonstrations to funders, the latter were also inscribed into the material-moral world being indexed so that they might attest to the project funding being money well spent. The pressure towards moral-material integrity is evidenced through: the project’s own ethical claims positioning the tasks of the project as achieving a recognisably moral improvement to the world; the project participants’ discussion of the demonstrations which appears to be an attempt to hold onto some moral integrity; recognition by project members of the impending demonstration to project funders and attempts to understand and pre-empt funders’ concerns and questions by designing a suitable demonstration with apparent integrity. For this material and moral integrity to hold together, the demonstration must operate in a similar manner to a fake artwork. Fake artworks must be able to convincingly index and thus constitute a context (e.g. a history of sales, appearances in auction catalogues). And the work of indexing must appear effortless, as if the artwork and its context have always been what they are; that those called upon to witness the indexing can be confdent that if they were to go to the context (an auction catalogue), it would defnitively point back to the artwork. Our algorithms must similarly index or point to (and thus constitute) a context (the everyday life of a train station and airport, of human-shaped objects and abandoned luggage) in a manner that is suffciently convincing and seemingly effortless that if those called upon to witness the demonstration—such as project funders and ethical experts—went to the context (the train station or airport), they would be pointed back towards the images displayed through the technology (the footage selected by the algorithm showing events). The alerts shown need to be convincingly of the everyday life of the train station or airport (rather than just a few carefully selected cameras) and any and all events that happen to be occurring (rather than just a few select events, from certain angles, in 116 D. NEYLAND certain lighting conditions, with carefully resourced and placed luggage). This is required for the system to be able to hold together its material and moral integrity and convince the witnesses they don’t need to go to the train station or airport and assess the extent to which the footage they have been shown is a complete and natural representation of those spaces. In other words, the technology must be able to show that it can alert us to (index) features of everyday life out there (context) and everyday life out there (context) must be prepared in such a way that it convincingly acts as a material whole with integrity from which alerts (index) have been drawn. The relation of undoubted correspondence must operate thus. The moral-material integrity holds together for as long as movement from index to context and back is not questioned and the ethical premise of the technology is maintained; if there is a failure in the index-context relation—if it becomes a relation of doubtful correspondence—this would not only question the ethical premise of the project, but also the broader motives of project members in putting on the demonstration. The move—albeit late in the project—to make the demonstration at least partially transparent and accountable, refects this pre-empting of possible concerns that research funders might have held. Idealising the messiness of multiple foor coverings, lighting conditions, ill-disciplined passengers and luggage was relatively easily managed in the train station demonstration as it was displayed through recorded footage. However, idealising the ‘live’ airport demonstration and maintaining a natural and effortless relation of undoubted correspondence between index and context was much more challenging. Rehearsals, tests (of luggage and those doing abandonment) and off-screen control of the space (e.g. by marking the space where luggage must be dropped) were each likely to compromise the material-moral integrity of the demonstrations. Revealing their idealised features 