meetings and demonstrations. We will look into what counts as an anticipated human-shaped object, and we will see how our algorithm struggles to grasp such objects. I will also suggest that the human-shaped object becomes itself a matter for experimentation. This is, I will contend, an important aspect of the everyday life of the algorithm: that it becomes entangled with the incredibly banal everyday life of the human (addressing questions such as what is the shape of a human). I will also suggest that the systems with which algorithms participate in construing effects are not stable and certainly not opaque within these project settings. Instead, algorithms and their system are continually inspected and tested, changed and further developed in order to try and grasp the human-shaped object. Within this experimental setting, we can hence note that the algorithms and their system do not operate entirely in line with expectations or within parameters that instantly make sense. Much of the everyday life of the algorithm is thus made up of attempts to get algorithms, their system, computer scientists or others to adequately account for what it is that they have produced. The chapter begins with a consideration of experimentation. What Is Experimentation? The tradition of studying the experiment in science and technology studies (STS) has been focused around the space of the laboratory (Latour and Woolgar 1979), forms of expertise (Collins and Evans 2007) and devices (Latour 1987) that render the laboratory a centre of, for example, calculation. The laboratory becomes the space into which the outside world is drawn in order to approximate its conditions for an experiment. Or alternatively, the conditions of the laboratory are extended into the world beyond the laboratory in order to take the laboratory experiment to the world (Latour 1993). The experiment as such, then, becomes a replicable phenomenon through which some feature of 2 EXPERIMENTATION WITH A PROBABLE HUMAN-SHAPED OBJECT 23 the world is proclaimed. And we see some parallels drawn with economic experiments that similarly seek to draw up variables to manage and control, a world to be drawn into the economic laboratory or a set of conditions to be extended beyond the laboratory (Muniesa and Callon 2007). The economic experiment, like the laboratory experiment, is as much about demonstration, as it is about discovery (Guala 2008). In Chapter 5, we will see that in the later stages of the everyday life of our algorithm, these concerns for control and demonstration came to the fore—particularly when research funders wanted to see results. But for now, our algorithm—the abandoned luggage algorithm from the Introduction—sits somewhat meekly and unknowing in an offce. It is waiting, but it does not know for what it waits: not for an experiment in the closely controlled sense of the term, not for a pristine laboratory space and not for a set of controlled variables, even human or luggage variables, through which it can demonstrate its capacity to grasp the world around it. To begin with it awaits experimentation. Experimentation sits somewhat apart from experiments. In place of controls or neatly defned space come proposals, ideas, efforts to try things and see what happens. Experimentation can be as much a part of qualitative social science as it can be a part of algorithmic computer science. In the social sciences, experimentation has been used as an impetus by Marres (2013) to experimentalise political ontology and by Johansson and Metzger (2016) to experimentalise the organisation of objects. What these works point towards is the fundamental focus for experimentation: that the nature of just about anything can be rendered at stake within the experimental realm. Scholars have also begun to conceive of experimentalising economic phenomena (Wherry 2014; Muniesa 2016a, b). This is interesting for drawing our attention towards the ways in which what might otherwise be quite controlled, laboratory-like settings can be opened up for new lines of thought through experimentation. These works draw on a patchy history of social science experimentation that has tended to raise insights and ethical concerns in equal measure. One historical route for the development of such experimentation has been Garfnkel’s (1963, 1967) breach experiments. Here, the aim was to disrupt—or breach—taken-for-granted features of everyday life in everyday settings in order to make those features available for analysis. But unlike the laboratory tradition, the breaches for Garfnkel were broadly experimental in the sense of providing some preliminary trials and fndings to be further worked on. They were heuristic devices, aiding the 24 D. NEYLAND sluggish imagination that provoked new thoughts and new lines of enquiry. Our algorithm is awaiting such provocation. But it is also awaiting experimentation that opens up questions of very fundamental features of everyday life, such as what is a 