questioned that order (by fnding orphan frames that then required explanation). The system threatened to overwhelm the qualculations that had tried to establish a demarcation between relevant data to be kept and irrelevant data to be deleted. The audit log generated a notable question for the project participants: could the technology still be sold primarily on the basis of its technical effcacy in deleting? The clear and negative answer to this question for the coordinators required a signifcant switch in the conditions under which parties might be invited to engage with the system. Initially the project coordinators had sought to take the internal accountability mechanisms of deletion out into the world as a basis for bringing the world to the deleting machine. They sought to develop from nothing, a market-valued something. After these somewhat sketchy results, the project coordinators sought to leave aside the technical diffculties through which nothing (the deleted) failed to be effectively and accountably constituted, at the same time as they continued to embark on concerted market work. As we will see in Chapter 6, having one form of calculation overwhelmed by this blank fgure, encouraged the coordinators to seek a different basis for ordering their calculations. Conclusion In this chapter, we have seen that grasping everyday life and participating in everyday life became more challenging for our algorithms as they moved from experimentation to something closer to system testing in the train station and airport. What might be termed the real world conditions of real time and real space operations proved diffcult. Indeed the algorithmic system needed more development to cope with these new exigencies. Further measurements and a new database were required to build durable links between the space of the airport and train station and the video stream that fowed through the system. 90 D. NEYLAND As our algorithms moved from experimentation towards testing in the train station and airport, its calculations changed, the system components were further developed, a more complex and uncertain everyday life needed to be engaged. This was all oriented towards demarcating relevant from irrelevant data in order to delete. Deletion was seen as crucial by the project coordinators to achieving the project’s ethical aims and in order to start building a market value for the technology under development. The system, it was hoped, would become the frst choice among frms looking for automated ways to manage their adherence to new data regulations. Yet deletion could not only happen through demarcation. Decisions had to be taken on the form that deletion would take (changing the route to access data, expunging, overwriting, corrupting data) and the means to accountably demonstrate that deletion had happened. Although decisions were made on all these matters, problems remained. The anticipated nothing—the deletion of irrelevant data—retained a troubling presence in orphan frames that inexplicably escaped the deletion protocols. The anticipated something—a log that accountably demonstrated to audiences that deletion had taken place—was then undermined. In place of a pristine account of nothing (the deleted) was a continual demonstration of the presence of something (the orphan frames): the algorithmic machine had become an expert in accountably demonstrating its own failures. This disruptive blank fgure, always attentive to the order in which it was expected to work, was simultaneously managing to challenge that order, by placing signifcant questions next to the algorithmic system’s future viability. As we will see in Chapters 5 and 6, these questions only become more pronounced over time. In sum, we have seen in this chapter that doing deletion can be a form of active qualculative work. The members of the project team dedicated hours and effort to build a machine to algorithmically delete. The technical work was also preparatory market work and accountability work. It involved coordination, computer science, social science, the invocation of end-user needs, and different ways to understand a developing policy environment. Doing this work was neither singular nor straightforward, but involved somehow making something from this diverse array. And making something required qualculations to separate out and identify objects, then bring those objects together in object classifcations in 4 THE DELETING MACHINE AND ITS DISCONTENTS 91 order to be judged. Yet setting limits for our algorithmic system through deletion was not straightforward; for something to be convincingly limited, it needed to be demonstrably and accountably limited. The work to produce an accountable deleting machine was focused on producing a machine that could account for itself and the way it set limits, demonstrating nothing (the product of deletion) as a prior step to something (the account of nothing, building a world of relations of value into the 