preparation of the ‘experiment’, rendering invisible: ‘the judgements and glosses, the failed rehearsals, the work of science – that provide the normal levers for criticism of disputed experimental results’ (728). Through this process of revelation (the public display) and concealment (hiding the preparation and practice), ‘the particular is seen as the general’ (728). That is, a fask containing nuclear waste is not presented as simply surviving this particular train wreck, but a display is put on through which we can see that all future trouble that this fask, and other similar fasks, might face will be unproblematic. Through historical studies of scientifc display and demonstration (Shapin 1988, cited by Collins 1988; Shapin and Shaffer 1985) we can start to see the long-standing import of this movement between revelation and concealment for the 96 D. NEYLAND continued production and promotion of felds of scientifc endeavour. Through contemporary studies of technology demonstration, sales pitches and product launches (Coopmans 2010; Simakova 2010), we can note the putative market value of concealment and revelation. Second, technology demonstrations and the management of future technological expectations do not only involve a continual movement between revelation and concealment, but also a continual temporal oscillation. Future times, places and actions are made apparent in the here and now (Brown 2003; Brown and Michael 2003). For example, future concerns of safety, reliability, longevity and even ethics (Lucivero et al. 2011) are made demonstrably present in the current technology. Furthermore, work to prepare a prototype can act as a sociomaterial mediator of different times and work orientations, ‘an exploratory technology designed to effect alignment between the multiple interests and working practices of technology research and development, and sites of technologies-in-use’ (Suchman et al. 2002: 163). For example, the possibilities of future mundane technology support and supplies are made manifest as features of demonstrations and launches (Simakova 2010). Alternatively, the limitations of a technology as it is now, can be made clear as part of the work of emphasising the future developmental trajectory of a technology or as a feature of attesting to the professionalism and honesty of the organisation doing the demonstration (that the organisation can and already has noted potential problems-to-be-resolved; Smith 2009). Third, within these studies there is an emphasis on the importance of audiences as witness. Drawing on Wittgenstein, Pinch (1993) suggests that audiences have to be persuaded of the close similarity between the demonstration and the future reality of a technology, they have to be persuaded to place in abeyance all the things that might make for a possible difference and instead agree to select the demonstrator’s criteria as the basis for judging sameness. However, this is not simply a case of the audience being dupes to the wily demonstrator. Smith (2004) contends the audience, the potential customer, can be knowledgeable of the limits of a technology, seeking to gain in some way from their participation in the demonstration and/or willing to ‘suspend disbelief’ in the artifce of the presentation (see also Coopmans [2010] on knowing audience members and their differential reaction). Through what means might audience members make their conclusions about a demonstration? Suchman (2011), in studying encounters with robots, looks at how 5 DEMONSTRATING THE ALGORITHM 97 persuasion occurs through the staging and witnessing that is characteristic of these scenes. Audiences, Suchman suggests, are captured by the story and its telling. Drawing on Haraway’s modest witness, Suchman outlines how the audience are positioned within, rather than outside the story; they are a part of the world that will come to be. Pollock and Williams (2010) provide a similar argument by looking at the indexicality of demonstrations which, to have infuence, must create the context/ world to which they point. Developing this kind of analytical position, Coopmans (2010) argues that audiences are integrated into the complex management of seeing and showing. Audiences are classifed and selectively invited to identify with a particular future being shown through the demonstration and attached to the technology being demonstrated. ‘Efforts to position the technological object so as to make it “seeable” in certain ways are mirrored by efforts to confgure an audience of witnesses’ (2010: 156). Smith’s (2004) utilisation of the dramaturgical metaphor for technology demonstrations, suggests these three focal points, of concealment and revelation, temporal oscillation and witnessing, are entangled in particular ways in any moment of demonstration. I will suggest that these three themes are also prevalent in preparing our algorithms for demonstrable success. But, frst, I propose a detour through integrity as a basis for 