effects and associated expectations. However, deletion also poses a particular kind of problem: the creation of nothing (the deleted) needs to be continually proven. The chapter explores the complexities of calculating what ought to be deleted, what form such deletion ought to take and whether or not data has indeed been deleted. These focal points and the diffculties of providing proof are used to address suggestions in contemporary research that algorithms are powerful and agential, easily able to enact and execute orders. Instead, the chapter calls for more detailed analysis (picked up in the next chapter) of what constitutes algorithmic success and failure. Following on from Chapter 4’s call for more detailed analysis of success and failure, Chapter 5 explores the problems involved in demonstrating an algorithmic system to a variety of audiences. As the project team reached closer to its fnal deadlines and faced up to the task of putting on demonstrations of the technology under development to various audiences—including the project funders—it became ever more apparent that in a number of ways the technology did not work. That is, promises made to funders, to academics, to potential end users on an advisory board, to ethical experts brought in to assess the technology may not be met. In project meetings, it became rapidly apparent that a number of ways of constituting a response to different audiences and their imagined demands could be offered. This was not simply a binary divide between providing a single truth or falsehood. Instead, a range 16 D. NEYLAND of different more or less ‘genuine’ demonstrations with greater or lesser integrity were discursively assembled by the project team, and ways to locate and populate, witness and manage the assessment of these demonstrations were brought to the table. Holding in place witnesses, technologies and practices became key to successfully demonstrating the algorithm. In this chapter, the notion of integrity will be used to suggest that ideas of sight, materiality and morality can be reworked and incorporated into the growing literature on algorithms as a basis for investigating the everyday life of what it means for an algorithmic system to work. The fnal chapter explores how a market can be built for an algorithmic system under development. It draws together studies of algorithms with the growing literature in STS on markets and the composition of fnancial value (Callon 1998; MacKenzie et al. 2007; Muniesa et al. 2007, 2017). In particular, it focuses on performativity (see, e.g., MacKenzie et al. 2007; MacKenzie 2008; Cochoy 1998; drawing on Austin 1962). Although STS work on markets has on occasions looked into fnancial trading through algorithms, the move here is to explore market making for algorithms. To accomplish this kind of market work and build a value for selecting relevance and deleting irrelevance, the project co-ordinators had to look beyond accountable outputs of technical certainty (given that, as we will have seen in Chapter 5, the machine had trouble delineating relevance and adequately deleting data). Instead, they looked to build a market for the algorithmic system through other means. From trying to sell technological effcacy, the project co-ordinators instead sought to build a market of willing customers (interested in a technology that might enable them to comply with emerging regulations) who were then constituted as a means to attract others to (potentially) invest in the system. Building a market here involved different kinds of calculations (such as Compound Annual Growth Rates for the felds in which the system might be sold) to forecast a market share. This might accomplish value by attracting interested parties whose investments might bring such a forecast closer to reality. The calculations had to enter a performative arena. This fnal chapter will suggest that market work is an important facet of the everyday life of an algorithm, without which algorithmic systems such as the one featured in this book, would not endure. The chapter concludes with an analysis of the distinct and only occasionally integrated everyday lives of the algorithm. 1 INTRODUCTION: EVERYDAY LIFE AND THE ALGORITHM 17 Notes 1. See Concise Oxford Dictionary (1999). 2. Ziewitz (2016) and Neyland (2016). 3. https://www.theguardian.com/science/2016/sep/01/how-algorithmsrule-our-working-lives. 4. http://uk.businessinsider.com/harvard-mathematician-reveals-algorithms-make-justice-system-baised-worse-black-people-crime-police-2017- 6?r=US&IR=T. 5. https://www.dezeen.com/2017/06/01/algorithm-seven-milliondifferent-jars-nutella-packaging-design/. 6. http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/science/new-algorithm-to-teach-robots-human-etiquettes/articleshow/59175965.cms. 7. An analytic sensibility is a way of thinking about and organising a determined scepticism towards the ethnographic material that a researcher is presented with during the course of their feldwork. 