simplifying assumptions are made for analytical tractability. These assump- tions include (1) economic agents are rational, which implies that agents have well-defined objectives and are able to optimize their behaviour, (2) economic agents are homogeneous, that is, agents have identical characteristics and rules of behaviour, (3) the system experiences primarily decreasing returns to scale from economic processes (decreasing marginal utility, decreasing marginal productivity, etc), and (4) the long-run equilibrium state of the system is the primary information of interest. Agent-based modeling allows relaxing the 22 CM Macal and MJ North standard assumptions of classical economics (Arthur et al, 1997) so the transient states that are encountered along the way to equilibrium can be investigated (Axtell, 2000). This interest has spawned the field of Agent-based Computational Economics (Tesfatsion, 2002; Tesfatsion and Judd, 2006). Much applicable work is being done on understanding how people make decisions in actual situations in such fields as behavioural economics and neuro-economics. This work offers promise in building better empirically based models of agent behaviours that consider rational factors and emotion. Agent-based models are being used to analyze markets, both existing and hypothetical. Charania et al (2006) use agent-based simulation to model possible futures for a market in sub-orbital space tourism. Each agent is a representation of an entity within the space industry. Tourism companies seek to maximize profits while they compete with other companies for sales. Customers evaluate the products offered by the companies according to their individual tastes and preferences. López-Sánchez et al (2005) developed a multi-agent based simulation of news digital markets adapting traditional business models to investigate market dynamics. Yin (2007) developed an agent-based model of Rocky Mountain tourism applied to the town of Breckenridge, Colorado; the model was used to explore how homeowners’ investment and reinvestment decisions are influenced by the level of investment and amenities available in their neighbourhoods. Tonmukayakul (2007) developed an agent-based computational economics model to study market mechanisms for the secondary use of the radio spectrum. Using transaction cost economics as the theoretical framework, the model was used to identify the conditions for when and why the secondary use market could emerge and what form it might take. Archaeology and anthropology are making use of large-scale agent-based modeling by providing an experimental virtual laboratory for long-vanished civilizations. Kohler et al (2005) employed large-scale agent-based simulations based on archaeological evidence to understand the social and cultural factors responsible for the disappearance of the ancient Pueblo in some parts of the south-western USA. Wilkinson et al (2007) used agent-based modeling to understand the growth and decline of ancient Mesopotamians. Agent-based models of many real-world systems tend to consist of a mix of physical components (modeled as agents) and social agents, termed ‘socio-technic’ systems. Examples of such systems for which large-scale agent- based models have been developed include traffic, air traffic control, military command and control and net-centric operations, physical infrastructures and markets, such as electric power and integrated energy markets. For example, Cirillo et al (2006) used an agent-based approach to model the Illinois electric power markets under conditions of deregulation in an effort to anticipate likely effects on electricity prices and reliability. This special issue adds to the growing list of agent-based model applications. Qu et al use their model of egg plant growth to promote understanding of the Tutorial on agent-based modeling and simulation 23 interactions between plant architecture and physiological processes. Chen and Hardoon use their model to examine cell division and migration in the colonic crypt to better understand the mechanisms of tumorigenesis. 4 Methods for agent-based modeling 4.1 Agent model design When developing an agent-based model, it is useful to ask a series of questions, the answers to which will lead to an initial model design: 1. What specific problem should be solved by the model? What specific questions should the model answer? What value-added would agent-based modeling bring to the problem that other modeling approaches cannot bring? 2. What should the agents be in the model? Who are the decision makers in the system? What are the entities that have behaviours? What data on agents are simply descriptive (static attributes)? What agent attributes would be calculated endogenously by the model and updated in the agents (dynamic attributes)? 3. What is the agents’ environment? How do the agents interact with the environment? Is an agent’s mobility through space an important consideration? 4. 