outcome of its behaviours relative to its goals and adjust its responses and behaviours in future interactions. Agents may be heterogeneous. Unlike particle simulation that considers relatively homogeneous particles, such as idealized gas particles, or molecular dynamics simulations that model individual molecules and their interactions, agent simulations often consider the full range of agent diversity across a population. Agent characteristics and behaviours may vary in their extent and sophistication, how much information is considered in the agent’s decisions, the agent’s internal models of the external world, the agent’s view of the possible reactions of other agents in response to its actions, and the extent of memory of past events the agent retains and uses in making its decisions. Agents may also be endowed with different amounts of resources or accumulate different levels of resources as a result of agent interactions, further differentiating agents. A typical agent structure is illustrated in Figure 2.2. In an agent-based model, everything associated with an agent is either an agent attribute or an agent method that operates on the agent. Agent attributes can be static, not changeable during the simulation, or dynamic, changeable as the simulation progresses. For example, a static attribute is an agent’s name; a dynamic attribute is an agent’s memory of past interactions. Agent methods include behaviours, such as rules or more abstract representations such as neural Figure 2.2 A typical agent Tutorial on agent-based modeling and simulation 17 networks, which link the agent’s situation with its action or set of potential actions. An example is the method that an agent uses to identify its neighbours. A theory of agent behaviour for the situations or contexts the agent encounters in the model is needed to model agent behaviour. One may begin with a normative model in which agents attempt to optimize profits, utility, etc, as a starting point for developing a simpler, more descriptive, but realistic, heuristic model of behaviour. One may also begin with a behavioural model if there is available behavioural theory and empirical data to support the application. For example, numerous theories and empirically based heuristics exist for modeling consumer shopping behaviour. These could be implemented and compared in an agent-based model. Cognitive science and related disciplines focus on agents and their social behaviours (Sun, 2006). Behavioural modeling frameworks such as BDI (Belief-Desire-Intent) combine modal and temporal logics as the basis for reactive planning and agent action selection (Wooldridge, 2000). In agent-based modeling applications in which learning is important, theories of learning by individual agents or collectives of agents become important. The field of machine learning is another source of learning algorithms for recognizing patterns in data (such as data mining) through techniques such as supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning (Alpaydyn, 2004; Bishop, 2007). Genetic algorithms (Goldberg, 1989) and related techniques such as learning classifier systems (Holland et al, 2000) are also commonly used in agent-based models. 2.4 Interacting agents Agent-based modeling concerns itself with modeling agent relationships and interactions as much as it does modeling agent behaviours. The two primary issues of modeling agent interactions are specifying who is, or could be, connected to who, and the mechanisms of the dynamics of the interactions. Both aspects must be addressed in developing agent-based models. One of the tenets of complex systems and agent-based modeling is that only local information is available to an agent. Agent-based systems are decentralized systems. There is no central authority that either pushes out globally available information to all agents or controls their behaviour in an effort to optimize system performance. Agents interact with other agents, but not all agents interact directly with all the other agents all the time, just as in real-world systems. Agents typically interact with a subset of other agents, termed the agent’s neighbours. Local information is obtained from interactions with an agent’s neighbours (not any agent or all agents) and from its localized environment (not from any part of the entire environment). Generally, an agent’s set of neighbours changes rapidly as a simulation proceeds and agents move through space. How agents are connected to each other is generally termed an agent-based model’s topology or connectedness. Typical topologies include a spatial grid or network of nodes (agents) and links (relationships). A topology describes who 18 CM Macal and MJ North transfers information to whom. In some applications, agents interact according to multiple topologies. For example, a recent agent-based pandemic model has agents interacting over a spatial grid to model physical contact as agents go through daily 