was perhaps unavoidable. Secondly, the work of our algorithms provides us with an opportunity to review the complexities of morality and vision in demonstrations in new ways. Previously, Smith (2009) has suggested a complex relationship between originals, fabrications and partial fabrications in viewing the staged drama of a demonstration and Coopmans (2010) has argued that revelation and concealment are central to the practices of seeing in demonstrations. These are important contributions, and through our algorithms we can start to note that what the technology sees (e.g. the algorithms turn out to be able to see certain types of non-refective 5 DEMONSTRATING THE ALGORITHM 117 fooring better than others) and the distribution of vision (who and what sees) and the organisation of vision (who and what is in a position to produce an account of who and what), are important issues in the integrity of demonstrations. The train station demonstration can have more or less integrity according to this distribution and organisation of vision. If recorded footage is used but the algorithms do not know what it is they will see, this is noted by project participants as having more integrity than if recorded decision-making by the algorithms is also used. In the event both types of recording were used. Discussions in project meetings around the demonstration for project funders, led to similar questions The algorithms need to see correctly (in classifying luggage as luggage-shaped objects) and to be seen correctly seeing (in producing system results) by, for example, project funders and ethical experts, in order to accomplish the visual-moral integrity to which the project has made claim: that the algorithms can grasp everyday life. Conclusion In this chapter, the focus on demonstrating our algorithms’ ability to grasp everyday life, compose accounts of everyday life and become the everyday of the airport and train station, has drawn attention to notions of integrity. Given the project’s ethical aims, work to bring a world into being through demonstration can be considered as concerted activities for bringing about a morally approved or better world. The moral terms of demonstrations can thus go towards establishing a basis from which to judge their integrity. Close scrutiny of demonstration work can then open up for analysis two ways of questioning the integrity of the moral world on show. Through material integrity, questions can be asked of the properties of demonstrations, what they seem to be and how they indexically provide for a means to constitute the moral order to which the demonstration attests. Through visual-integrity questions can be posed of who and what is seeing, the management of seeing, what it means to see correctly, and be seen correctly. Material and visual integrity is managed in such a way as to allow for the demonstrations to produce a relation of undoubted correspondence between index and context, establishing the integrity of the material and visual features of the technology: that it sees and has been seen correctly, and that the acts of seeing and those doing the seeing can be noted as having suffcient moral integrity for those acts of seeing to suffce. 118 D. NEYLAND The problems our algorithms have with grasping and composing an account of the everyday life of the airport and train station require that this integrity is compromised. Just taking Fig. 5.3 as an example, the human-shaped object composed by the algorithm does not match the human in the real time and real space of the airport (the system has placed a bounding box only around the human’s head). Algorithmic time and space has produced a mismatch with airport time and space; the everyday life of the algorithm and the airport are at odds and the relation of undoubted correspondence between algorithmic index and airport context does not have integrity; the algorithm’s composition of, rather than grasping of, the human is laid bare. A compromise is required to overcome this mismatch. Years of work to grasp the human-shaped object (Chapter 2), to make that grasping accountable (Chapter 3) and to demarcate relevance from irrelevance (Chapter 4) are all now at stake. In the next Chapter, we will see that our algorithms’ problems in seeing and the need to adopt these compromises, poses questions for composing and managing the market value of the technology. Notes 1. See, for example: http://www.theguardian.com/uk/2008/jul/23/ canoe.ukcrime and http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/7133059.stm. 2. See: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2478877/Man-sendsletters-using-DIY-stamps-Royal-Mail-failed-notice.html and http://metro. co.uk/2013/10/29/royal-fail-anarchist-creates-freepost-system-with-hisown-stamps-4165420/. 3. See: http://www.thefootballsupernova.com/2012/04/ali-dia-greatestscam-premier-league.html and http://www.espncricinfo.com/county-cricket-2011/content/story/516800.html. 4. See: 