mean by the ‘everyday life’ of an algorithm. If we want to grasp a means to engage with the entanglements of a set of ordered instructions like our abandoned luggage algorithm, then we need to do some work to set out our terms of engagement. The everyday has been a focal point for sociological analysis for several decades. Goffman’s (1959) pioneering work on the dramaturgical staging of everyday life provides serious consideration of the behaviour, sanctions, decorum, controls and failures that characterise an array of 10 D. NEYLAND situations. De Certeau (1984) by switching focus to the practices of everyday life brings rules, bricolage, tactics and strategies to the centre of his analysis of the everyday. And Lefebvre (2014) suggests across three volumes that the everyday is both a site of containment and potential change. The everyday of the algorithm will be given more consideration in subsequent chapters, but what seems apparent in these works is that for our purposes, the technologies or material forms that take part in everyday life are somewhat marginalised. Technologies are props in dramaturgical performances (in Goffman’s analysis of the life of crofters in the Shetland Islands) or a kind of background presence to practices of seeing (in de Certeau’s analysis of a train journey). Lefebvre enters into a slightly more detailed analysis of technology, suggesting for example that ‘computer scientists proclaim the generalization of their theoretical and practical knowledge to society as a whole’ (2014: 808). But Lefebvre’s account is also dismissive of the analytic purpose of focusing on technologies as such, suggesting ‘it is pointless to dwell on equipment and techniques’ (2014: 812). Taken together, as far as that is possible, these authors’ work suggests few grounds for opening up the everyday life of technology. Perhaps the most that could be said is that, based on these works, an analysis of the everyday life of an algorithm would need to attend to the human practices that then shape the algorithm. Even everyday analyses that devote lengthy excursions to technology, such as Braudel’s (1979) work on everyday capitalism, tend to treat technologies as something to be catalogued as part of a historical inventory. To provide analytical purchase on the algorithm as a participant in everyday life requires a distinct approach. One starting point for taking the everyday life of objects, materials and technologies seriously can be found in Latour’s search for the missing masses. According to Latour, sociologists: are constantly looking, somewhat desperately, for social links sturdy enough to tie all of us together… The society they try to recompose with bodies and norms constantly crumbles. Something is missing, something that should be strongly social and highly moral. Where can they fnd it? … To balance our accounts of society, we simply have to turn our exclusive attention away from humans and look also at nonhumans. Here they are, the hidden and despised social masses who make up our morality. They knock at the door of sociology, requesting a place in the accounts of society as stubbornly as the human masses did in the nineteenth century. What our ancestors, the founders of sociology, did a century ago to house the 1 INTRODUCTION: EVERYDAY LIFE AND THE ALGORITHM 11 human masses in the fabric of social theory, we should do now to fnd a place in a new social theory for the nonhuman masses that beg us for understanding. (1992: 152–153) Here, the non-humans should not simply be listed as part of an inventory of capitalism. Instead, their role in social, moral, ethical and physical actions demands consideration. But in this approach, ‘social’ is not to be understood on the conventional terms of sociologists as a series of norms that shape conduct or as a context that explains and accounts for action. Instead, efforts must be made to make sense of the means through which associations are made, assembled or composed. Everyday life, then, is an ongoing composition in which humans and non-humans participate. The algorithm might thus require study not as a context within which everyday life happens, but as a participant. Such a move should not be underestimated. Here, Latour tells us, we end the great divide between social and technical, and assumptions that humans ought to hold status over non-humans in our accounts. Instead, we start to open up an array of questions. As Michael suggests, in this approach: ‘everyday life is permeated by technoscientifc artefacts, by projections of technoscientifc futures and by technoscientifc accounts of the present’ (2006: 9). We can also start to see in this move to grant status to the non-human that questions can open up as to precisely how such status might be construed. Assembly work or composition certainly could provide a way to frame a study of the algorithm as a participant in everyday action, but how does the algorithm become (or embody) the everyday? Mol (2006) 