and morality into the growing literature on algorithms. Keywords Demonstration · Expectation · Integrity · Morality · Witnessing Opening In this chapter, our algorithms will continue their journey into the everyday. Beyond the initial expectation held by project participants (see Chapters 2 and 3) that in experimental settings the algorithms might CHAPTER 5 Demonstrating the Algorithm © The Author(s) 2019 D. Neyland, The Everyday Life of an Algorithm, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-00578-8_5 94 D. NEYLAND prove their ability to grasp features of everyday life, the algorithms must now through testing and demonstration, to express their ability to become the everyday. However, building on the portents of Chapter 4, wherein the deletion system ran into trouble with orphan frames, what we will see in this chapter is a broader and more calamitous collapse of the relation between the algorithms and the everyday. As the project team reached closer to its fnal deadlines and faced up to the task of putting on demonstrations of the technology under development to various audiences—including the project funders—it became ever more apparent that the algorithms struggled to grasp the everyday, struggled to compose accounts of the everyday and would struggle to become the everyday of the train station and airport. Promises made to funders, to academics, to potential end-users, to ethical experts brought into assess the technology, may not be met. It became clear to the project team that a number of ways of constituting a response to different audiences and their imagined demands would need to be offered. This did not involve a simple binary divide between the algorithmic system working and not working. Instead a range of different demonstrations, with what we will describe (below) as greater or lesser integrity, were discursively assembled by the project team, ways to locate and populate, witness and manage the assessment of demonstrations were brought to the table. Several of the demonstrations that had already been carried out were now reconceptualised as showing that features of the algorithmic system could perhaps work. Agreements were rapidly made, tasks were distributed and imminent deadlines agreed; the demonstrations (with varying integrity) were only weeks away. The growing science and technology studies (STS) literature on demonstrations hints at a number of ways in which the integrity of demonstrations might be engaged. For example, Smith (2004) suggests demonstrations may involve elements of misrepresentation or partial fabrication. Coopmans (2010) analyses moves to conceal and reveal in demonstrations of digital mammography which manage the activity of seeing. And Simakova (2010) relates tales from the feld of demonstration in technology launches, where the absence of the technology to be launched/demonstrated is carefully managed. These feature as part of a broader set of concerns in the STS demonstration literature including notions of witnessing (Smith 2009), dramaturgical metaphors and staging (Suchman 2011), and questions regarding who is in a position to see what at the moment of visual display (Collins 1988). These studies each have a potential relevance for understanding the demonstrations in this chapter. 5 DEMONSTRATING THE ALGORITHM 95 The chapter will begin with a discussion of the ways in which recent STS literature has handled future orientations in studies of technology demonstrations, testing, expectations and prototyping. This will provide some analytic tools for considering the work of the algorithmic system in its move into forms of testing and demonstration. I will then suggest that notions of integrity provide a means to turn attention towards the practices of seeing, forms of morality and materiality made at stake in demonstrations of our algorithms. The chapter will conclude with a discussion of the problems now faced by our algorithms as a result of their demonstrable challenges. Future Orientations of Technology STS scholars have provided several ways of engaging with potential futures of technology, expectations of science and technology, technology under development and/or technologies that continue to raise concerns regarding their future direction, development, use or consequence. Drawing these studies together, three analytic themes emerge which I will use as a starting point for discussion. First, studies of technology demonstration, testing, displays, launches, experiments, and the management of expectations frequently incorporate considerations regarding what to show and what to hide. Coopmans (2010) terms this the management of ‘revelation and concealment’ (2010: 155). Collins (1988) suggests that what might nominally be presented as a public experiment (in his case in the strength and integrity of fasks designed to carry nuclear waste) is more akin to a display of virtuosity (727). In order to manage and maintain such virtuosity, only partial access is provided to the 