project. The frst of these involved bounding boxes, and the second involved a more precise pixel-based classifcation. Both approaches relied on the same initial parameterisation of putative objects. To parameterise potential objects, models had to be computationally designed. This involved experimenting with establishing edges around what a human-shaped object was likely to be (in terms of height, width and so on). Other models then had to be built to parameterise other objects, such as luggage, cleaners’ trolleys, signposts and other non-permanent attributes of the settings under surveillance. The models relied on 200-point vector analysis to set in place what made up the edges of the object under consideration and then to which model those edges suggested the object belonged. This was elegant insofar as it would produce rapid, real-time classifcations because it was concise, using only a minimal amount of processing power and being achievable very quickly. Parameterisation was presented by the computer scientists as a form of classifcation that the developing algorithmic system could manage while the system also carried out its other tasks. In this way, parameterisation would act as an initial but indefnite basis for object classifcation that could be confrmed by other system processes and even later by surveillance operatives when shown images of, for example, an apparently suspicious item of luggage. However, these parameterisations could only be adjudged as satisfactory and persuasive when they were put to use in the airport and train station. There were just too many possible mitigating issues to predict how an initial experimentation with parameterisation would turn out in practice. Initial parameterisation did at least allow the computer scientists to gain some confdence that their putative classifcations could be achieved within the 2 EXPERIMENTATION WITH A PROBABLE HUMAN-SHAPED OBJECT 37 bounds of processing possibility and could be achieved by making selections of relevance from streams of digital video data. Once parameterised as putative human-shaped or luggage-shaped objects, the action states of these objects also required classifcation, for example, as moving or not moving. This involved object tracking to ascertain the action state of the objects being classifed. To achieve the conditions established in the algorithmic IF-THEN rules, the system had to identify, for example, that a putative item of luggage demarcated as potentially relevant, based on a designed model used to initiate parameterisation, was no longer moving and that a human-shaped object that was derived from a similar process, had left this luggage, had moved at least a certain distance from the luggage and for a certain time. In order to track objects that had been given an initial and hesitant classifcation, human-shaped objects and luggage-shaped objects would be given a bounding box. This was a digitally imposed stream of metadata that would create a box around the object according to its already established edges (Fig. 2.3). The box would then be given a metadata identity according to its dimensions, location within the airport or train station (e.g. which Fig. 2.3 An anonymous human-shaped bounding box 38 D. NEYLAND camera it appeared on) and its direction and velocity. For the Event Detection algorithms of moving into a forbidden space or moving in the wrong direction (e.g. going back through airport security or going the wrong way through an entry or exit door in a rush hour train station), these bounding boxes were a concise form of identifcation. They enabled human-shaped objects to be selected with what might be a reasonable accuracy and consistency and without using too much processing effort. They were elegant, even if visually they looked a bit ugly and did little to match the actual shape of a human beyond their basic dimensions. However, for abandoned luggage, something slightly different was required. In experimentation, in order to successfully and consistently demarcate human-shaped objects and luggage-shaped objects and their separation, a more precisely delimited boundary needed to be drawn around the putative objects. This required the creation of a pixel mask that enabled the algorithmic system to make a more precise sense of the human- and luggage-shaped objects, when and if they separated (Fig. 2.4). This more closely cropped means to parameterise and classify objects could then be used to issue alerts within the system. IF a humanshaped object split from a luggage-shaped object, IF the human-shaped object continued to move, IF the luggage-shaped object remained stationary, IF the luggage-shaped object and human-shaped object were Fig. 2.4 A closecropped pixelated parameter for humanand luggage-shaped object 2 EXPERIMENTATION WITH A PROBABLE HUMAN-SHAPED OBJECT 39 over a certain distance apart and IF the human-shaped object and luggage-shaped object stayed apart for a certain amount of time, THEN 