response. The overall effect was that the algorithmic system began to emerge and take shape, at least on a computer screen and as a projection. The components that would need to be developed were discussed, the future role of algorithms in Event Detection was more or less set, and a specifc shape was given to the project’s ethical proposals. A technical means was proposed for limiting the range of data that would be seen and the amount of data that would be stored. As we will see, producing a UI and Route Reconstruction system (Chapter 3) and deleting data (Chapter 4) were problematic throughout the life of the project. However, for now we will retain our focus on experimenting with the human-shaped object. Elegance and the Human-Shaped Object With the system architecture agreed at least in a preliminary form, the computer scientists could get on with the task of making the system work. Key to having a working system was to ensure that the data fowing from surveillance cameras through the Media Proxy could be understood by the Event Detection component. If events could not be detected, there would be no system. Figuring out ways to detect abandoned luggage, moving the wrong way and moving into a forbidden space were crucial. Central to Event Detection was the human-shaped object. As digital video was streamed through the system, the algorithms would need to be able to pick out human-shaped objects frst, and then the actions in which they were engaged second. Relevant actions for this experimental stage of system development would be a human-shaped object moving the wrong way, a human-shaped object moving into a forbidden space and a human-shaped object abandoning its luggage. How could this human-shaped object be given a defnition that made sense for operationalisation within the system? The algorithms for Event Detection used in video analytic systems are a designed product. They take effort and work and thought and often an amount of reworking. 2 EXPERIMENTATION WITH A PROBABLE HUMAN-SHAPED OBJECT 31 The algorithms and their associated code for this project built on the decade of work carried out, respectively, by University 1 and University 2. As these long histories of development had been carried out by various colleagues within these Universities over time, tinkering with the algorithms was not straightforward. When computer scientists initially talked of ‘dropping in’ algorithms into the system, this was partly in the hope of avoiding many of the diffculties of tinkering, experimenting and tinkering again with algorithms that were only partially known to the computer scientists. As we saw in the Introduction with the abandoned luggage algorithm, the algorithm establishes a set of rules which are designed to contribute to demarcating relevant from irrelevant video data. In this way, such rules could be noted as a means to discern people and things that could be ignored and people and things that might need further scrutiny. If such a focus could hold together, the algorithms could indeed be dropped in. However, in practice, what constituted a human-shaped object was a matter of ongoing work. Let’s return to the subject of the Introduction to then explore experimentation with human-shaped objects. As a reminder, these are the IF-THEN rules for the abandoned luggage algorithm (Fig. 2.2): Fig. 2.2 Abandoned luggage algorithm 32 D. NEYLAND As I noted in the Introduction, what seems most apparent in these rules is the IF-THEN structure. At its simplest, the ‘IF’ acts as a condition and the ‘THEN’ acts as a consequence. In this particular algorithm, the IF-THEN rules were designed to operate in the following way. IF an object was detected within a stream of digital video data fed into the system from a particular area (notably a train station operated by StateTrack or an airport operated by SkyPort), THEN the object could be tentatively allocated the category of potentially relevant. IF that same object was deemed to be in the class of objects ‘human-shaped’, THEN that object could be tentatively allocated the category of a potentially relevant human-shaped object. IF that same human-shaped object was separate from a luggage-shaped object, THEN it could maintain its position as potentially relevant. IF that same human-shaped object and luggage-shaped object were set apart beyond a specifc distance threshold set by the system (say 2 or 10 metres) and the same objects were set apart beyond the temporal threshold set by the system (say 30 seconds or 1 minute)—that is, if the person and luggage were suffciently far apart for suffciently long—THEN an alert could be sent to surveillance operatives. The alert would then mean that the package of data relevant to the alert would be sent to the UI and operatives could then click on the data, watch the video of abandoned luggage and offer a relevant response (see Chapter 3). What is important for now is how these putative objects were given shape and divided into 