account, might intersect. In the rest of this chapter, I will suggest that demands for an algorithm to be accountable (in the sense of being transparent and open to question by those subject to algorithmic decision-making and their representatives) might beneft from a detailed study of the account-able order of an algorithmic system under development. Being able to elucidate the terms of algorithmic participation in making sense of scenes placed under surveillance—as an account-able order—might assist in opening the algorithmic system to accountable questioning. However, for this to be realised requires practically managing the matter of intersecting different registers of account. 3 ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE ALGORITHM 53 For the account-able to intersect with the accountable took some effort even before the project began. I proposed combining my ethnomethodologically infected ethnography of the algorithm’s account-able order with a particular form of accountability—an ethics board to whom I would report and who could raise questions. The interactions through which the algorithm came to make sense of particular scenes—as an account-able order—could be presented to the ethics board so that they could raise questions on behalf of future subjects of algorithmic decision-making—a form of algorithmic accountability. As the following sections will show, intersecting registers of accounts (account-ability and accountability) did not prove straightforward. The next section of the chapter will detail efforts to engage with the account-able order of the algorithm through the User Interface and Route Reconstruction components of the system. We will then explore the intersection of account registers through the ethics board. Account-ability Through the User Interface and Route Reconstruction In order for the algorithm to prove itself account-able—that is demonstrably able to participate in the production of accounts of the everyday life of the train station and the airport—required an expansion of the activities we already considered in Chapter 2. Being able to classify human-shaped and luggage-shaped objects through mapping the fxed attributes of the setting, parameterisation of the edges of objects, object classifcation, identifying the action states of objects, the production of bounding boxes or close-cropped images was also crucial to fguring out a means to participate in the production of accounts. These efforts all went into the production of alerts (a key form of algorithmic account) for operatives of the train station and airport surveillance system who could then take part in the production of further accounts. They could choose to ignore alerts they deemed irrelevant or work through an appropriate response, such as calling for security operatives in, for example, the Departure Lounge to deal with an item of luggage. At least, that was how the project team envisaged the future beyond the experimental phase of algorithmic work. Project participants from StateTrack and SkyPort who worked with the existing surveillance system on a daily basis, at this experimental stage, also more or less concurred with this envisaged future. 54 D. NEYLAND A future in which alerts were sent to operatives cutting down on the data that needed to be seen and cutting down on the data that needed to be stored seemed a potentially useful way forward for operatives and their managers (who were also interested in cutting down on data storage costs, see Chapters 4 and 6). But this was a cautious optimism. At this experimental stage of the project, operatives wanted to know what the alerts would look like when they received them, how would responses be issued by them, how would others in the airport receive these responses and further respond? Their everyday competences were oriented towards seeing as much as possible in as much detail as possible and reading the images for signs of what might be taking place. They mostly operated with what Garfnkel (1967) referred to as a relation of undoubted correspondence between what appeared to be happening in most images and what they took to be the unfolding action. In moments of undoubted correspondence, it was often the case that images could be ignored—they appeared to be what they were because very little was happening. However, it was those images that raised a concern—a relation of doubted correspondence between what appeared to be going on and what might unfold—that the operatives seemed to specialise in. It was these images of concern that they had to read, make sense of, order and respond to, that they would need to see translated into alerts (particularly if all other data was to remain invisible or even be deleted). How could the algorithms for abandoned luggage, moving the wrong way and entry into a forbidden area act as an experimental basis for handling this quite complex array of image competencies? The computer scientists established an initial scheme for how the three types of 