station and airport and the ability of the system to classify human-shaped objects and place bounding boxes around them. Recording and studying the movement of human-shaped bounding boxes could be used to establish a database of popular routes human-shaped objects took through a space and the average time it took a human-shaped object to walk from one camera to another. The system would use the bounding boxes to note the dimensions, direction and speed of human-shaped objects. The Route Reconstruction system would then sift through the digital stream of video images to locate, for example, a person who had been subject to an alert and trace the route from which they were most likely to have arrived (using the database of most popular routes), how long it should have taken them to appear on a previous camera (based on their speed) and search for any 3 ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE ALGORITHM 59 human-shaped objects that matched their bounding box dimensions. If unsuccessful, the system would continue to search other potential routes and sift through possible matches to send to the operatives, who could then tag those images as also relevant or irrelevant. The idea was to create what the computer scientists termed a small ‘sausage’ of data from among the mass of digital images. The Route Reconstruction system used probabilistic trees (Fig. 3.2), which took an initial image (of, e.g., an abandoned item of luggage and its human-shaped owner) and then presented possible ‘children’ of that image (based on dimensions, speed and most popular routes) until operatives were happy that they had established the route of the person and/or object in question. Probability, background maps, object classifcation and tracking became a technical means for the algorithms to participate in holding everyday life to account. As a result of operatives’ articulation of a potential clash between an ethical aim of the project (to reduce visibility) and the everyday competences of surveillance operatives (to secure a train station or airport space through comprehensive visibility), the account-able order Fig. 3.2 A probabilistic tree and children (B0 and F0 are the same images) 60 D. NEYLAND of work between computer scientists, end-users, their working practices and the User Interface shifted somewhat to incorporate the new Route Reconstruction component. Route Reconstruction became a basis for account-ably acknowledging the existing competences of operatives in securing a space. The small ‘sausages’ of data and probabilistic ‘children’ became a means of broadening the number of participants in account-ably accomplishing a sense of the everyday life of the train station and airport. Yet having ‘sausages’ of data and new forms of metadata (used to produce ‘children’) might initially appear to move the project away from its stated ethical aim to reduce the amount of surveillance data made visible—this became an issue for questions of accountability asked on behalf of future subjects of algorithmic decision-making, as we will see. At this point (at least for a time), it seemed that I was in a position to make an ethnographic sense of the account-able order of the algorithmic system that would avoid an overly simplifed snapshot. In place of a static audit of the system was an account of an emerging order in which terabytes of visual, video data would be sifted by relevance detection algorithms, using background subtraction models to select out proto-relevant human-shaped and other objects. These would be further classifed through specifc action states (abandoning luggage, moving the wrong way, moving into a forbidden space) that could be the basis for an alert. Operatives would then have the responsibility to decide on future courses of action as a result of the alerts they were sent (e.g. alerting airport security staff to items of luggage). The alerts were the frst means through which the algorithmic system could participate in the account-able order of the scene placed under surveillance. Subsequent operative responses could also shift responsibility for a second form of account-able action back onto the algorithmic system if Route Reconstruction was deemed necessary, with probabilistic trees and children designed to offer images of proto-past and subsequent actions (once again to be deemed relevant by operatives). Through this account-able order, the algorithmic system was involved in making sense of the everyday life of particular spaces, such as an airport or train station, and held out the possibility of contributing to changes in operatives’ everyday competences in securing those spaces. The presence of the algorithmic system proposed notable changes in the operatives’ activities. Instead of engaging with large amounts of video data in order to make decisions, operatives would only be presented with a small amount of data to which their responses were also limited. Conversely, for the algorithmic system 3 ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE ALGORITHM 