describes deletion as a solution to the ‘pernicious’ features of ‘comprehensive digital memory’ (Mayer-Schonberger 2009: 11). For the project coordinators, deletion was a means to respond to these concerns and maybe corner the market for accountably, ethically and algorithmically deleting data. Firms that needed to respond to new policy requirements might after all need a deletion system. But deletion had also become a 82 D. NEYLAND cause for concern within the project. The computer scientists’ interest in a conventional form of deletion that was not particularly secure or complete, but was straightforward, stood in contrast to the views expressed by the project coordinators and the ethics board who for different reasons wanted a more thorough-going form of deletion. Should deletion simply involve changing the route by which data was accessed, should it involve expunging data from the system, corrupting or overwriting data? These questions responded to the project’s ethical aims in different ways, required different amounts of effort, budget and expertise and might provide different ways to make sense of the technology’s market potential (see Chapter 6). These concerns were not easy to separate. As the project moved beyond the experimental phase that we saw in Chapters 2 and 3, towards a more fully operational system that would be tested live in the train station and airport, a decision was required on what ought to constitute deletion. The consultancy frm that coordinated the project decided, with ethics board support, to pursue the development of a comprehensive, but complex deletion system. Eventually, this would involve using solid-state drives for data storage with data then overwritten by an automated system, making it more or less irretrievable. To begin with, however, solid-state technology was not available to the project and the means to automatically overwrite data was not yet developed in a way that would work on the project’s system architecture. Moreover, the system had to also demonstrate that it could successfully demarcate relevant from irrelevant data in order that the irrelevant data could be overwritten. And other data which had been tagged ‘relevant’ once it was no longer needed and metadata (such as timestamps and bounding box dimensions) would also need to be deleted. And not just deleted, but demonstrably and accountably deleted so that various audiences could be shown that deletion had taken place and that the system worked. TechFirm, a large IT network provider who were a partner in the project, had taken on the task of ensuring that the deletion system would be accountable. The complexity of deletion did not end here: discussions continued around how quickly data should be deleted. Just how long should data be stored, what was the correct ethical and practical duration for data storage? Operatives might need to do Route Reconstruction sometime after an alert had been issued, but ethical demands suggested such storage times should be limited. As a feature of the emerging technology under test conditions, 24 hours was initially set as a data storage period that responded to ethical and emerging policy imperatives and the practical requirements of operatives. 4 THE DELETING MACHINE AND ITS DISCONTENTS 83 These were each signifcant challenges in software and hardware, but also conceptually and ethically. This was not simply about producing nothing—the deleted. Instead it involved the continual and simultaneous production of nothing and something—the deleted, an account that could demonstrably attest that deletion had taken place, a new benchmark for deletion, a new system that could take on all the requirements of end-users oriented towards data retention at the same time as satisfying the ethics board and newly emerging regulations that data would not be stored. It was through this array of questions and concerns that deletion became a blank fgure, both something and nothing, a troubling and disruptive fgure within the project. As the project moved out of its experimental phase, our algorithms and their IF-THEN rules would need to provide the basis for demarcating relevance from irrelevance with a level of confdence that would enable deletion to take place (although as we will see in Chapter 5, this was in itself a challenge). As I suggested in previous chapters, the Event Detection algorithms for moving the wrong way, moving into a forbidden space and abandoned luggage were also termed relevancy detection algorithms. In order to decide what ought to be deleted, these algorithms would need to sift through streams of digital video data streamed from the airport and train station video surveillance system, via the system’s Media Proxy that we noted in Chapter 2 (to smooth out any inconsistencies). This should make available somewhere between 1 and 5% of data to operatives of the surveillance system through the User Interface as images that they might need to look at more closely. The 