questions, include real data, and have passed appropriate validation tests to establish credibility. 3.2 Applications overview Troisi et al (2005) applied agent-based simulation to model molecular self- assembly. Agents consist of individual molecules, and agent behaviours consist of the physical laws of molecular interaction. Such agent-based modeling approaches have found use in investigating pattern formation in the self- assembly of nano-materials, in explaining self-organized patterns formed in granular materials, and other areas. In the biological sciences, agent-based modeling is used to model cell behaviour and interaction, the workings of the immune system, tissue growth, and disease processes. Generally, authors contend that agent-based modeling offers benefits beyond traditional modeling approaches for the problems studied and use the models as electronic laboratories as an adjunct to traditional laboratories. Cellular automata are a natural application for modeling cellular systems (Alber et al, 2003). One approach uses the cellular automata grid to model structures of stationary cells comprising a tissue matrix. Mobile cells consisting of pathogens and antibodies are agents that diffuse through and interact with tissue and other co-located mobile cells. The Basic Immune Simulator is built on a general agent-based framework to model the interactions between the cells of the innate and adaptive immune system (Folcik et al, 2007). Approaches for modeling the immune system have inspired several agent-based models of intrusion detection for computer networks (Azzedine et al, 2007) and modeling the development and spread of cancer (Preziosi, 2003). Emonet et al (2005) developed an agent- based simulator AgentCell for modeling the chemotaxis processes for motile behaviour of the E. Coli bacteria. In this multi-scale simulation, agents are modeled as individual molecules as well as whole cells. The model is used to study how the range of natural cell diversity at the molecular level is responsible for the observed range of cell movement behaviours. In ecology, agent-based modeling is used to model diverse populations of individuals and their interactions. Mock and Testa (2007) develop an agent- based model of predator-prey relationships between transient killer whales and Tutorial on agent-based modeling and simulation 21 threatened marine mammal species (sea lions and sea otters) in Alaska. The authors state that until now only simplistic, static models of killer whale consumption had been constructed because of the fact that the interactions between transient killer whales and their marine mammal prey are poorly suited to classical predator-prey modeling approaches. Agent-based epidemic and pandemic models incorporate spatial and network topologies to model people’s realistic activity and contact patterns (Carley et al, 2006; Epstein et al, 2007). The focus is on understanding tipping point conditions that might lead to an epidemic and identifying possible mitigation measures. These models explicitly consider the role of people’s behaviour and interactions through social networks as they affect the spread of infectious diseases. Computational social science is an emerging field that combines modeling and simulation with the social science disciplines (Sallach and Macal, 2001). Agent-based models have been developed in the fields of economics, sociology, anthropology, and cognitive science. Various social phenomena have been investigated using agent-based models that are not easily modeled using other approaches (Macy and Willer, 2002; Gilbert and Troitzsch, 2005). Theore- tical applications include social emergence (Sawyer, 2005), the emergence of cooperation (Axelrod, 1997), the generation of social instability (Epstein, 2002), and the collective behaviour of people in crowds (Pan et al, 2007). Sakoda (1971) formulated one of the first social agent-based models, the Checkerboard Model, which relied on a cellular automaton. Using a similar approach, Schelling developed a model of housing segregation in which agents represent homeowners and neighbours, and agent interactions represent agents’ perceptions of their neighbours (Schelling, 1978). Schelling showed that housing segregation patterns can emerge that are not necessarily implied or consistent with the objectives of the individual agents. Epstein and Axtell (1996) extended the notion of modeling people to growing entire artificial societies through agent-based simulation in the grid-based Sugarscape model. Sugarscape agents emerged with a variety of characteristics and behaviours, highly suggestive of a realistic, although rudimentary and abstract, society. These early grid-based models with limited numbers of social agents are now being extended to large-scale simulations over realistic social spaces such as social networks and geographies through real-time linkages with GIS. In many economic models based on standard micro-economic theory, 