what do algorithms do and how do they accomplish effect) that is frequently combined with calls for algorithmic accountability (Diakopolous 2013). Accountability is presented as distinct from transparency. While the latter might have utility for presenting the content or logic of an algorithm, accountability is said to be 8 D. NEYLAND necessary for interrogating its outcomes (Felten 2012). Only knowing the content of an algorithm might be insuffcient for understanding and deciding upon the relative justice of its effects. But here is where the drama is ratcheted up: the value of many commercial algorithms depends upon guarding their contents (Gillespie 2013). No transparency is a condition for the accumulation of algorithmically derived wealth. No transparency also makes accountability more challenging in judging the justice of an algorithm’s effects: not knowing the content of an algorithm makes pinning down responsibility for its consequences more diffcult. Our abandoned luggage algorithm presents its own contents. In this sense, we have achieved at least a limited sense of transparency. In forthcoming chapters, we will start to gain insights into other algorithms to which the abandoned luggage example is tied. But having the rules on the page does not provide a strong sense of accountability. In the preceding paragraphs, I suggested that insights into the everyday life of the algorithm are crucial to making sense of how it participates in bringing about effects. It is these effects and the complex sets of relations that in various ways underpin their emergence that need to be studied for the ordered steps of the abandoned luggage algorithm to be rendered accountable. A further theme in recent writing has been to argue that algorithms should not be understood in isolation. Mythologizing the status or power of an algorithm, the capability of algorithms to act on their own terms or to straightforwardly produce effects (Ziewitz 2016) have each been questioned. Here, software studies scholars have suggested we need to both take algorithms and their associated software/code seriously and situate these studies within a broader set of associations through which algorithms might be said to act (Neyland and Mollers 2016). Up-close, ethnographic engagement with algorithms is presented as one means to achieve this kind of analysis (although as Kitchin [2014] points out, there are various other routes of enquiry also available). Getting close to the algorithm might help address the preceding concerns highlighted in algorithmic writing; opening up the inscrutable algorithm to a kind of academic accountability and deepening our understanding of the power of algorithms to participate in the production of effects. This further emphasises the importance of grasping the everyday life of the algorithm. How do the ordered steps of the abandoned luggage algorithm combine with various humans (security operatives, airport passengers, terminal managers and their equivalents in train stations) and non-humans 1 INTRODUCTION: EVERYDAY LIFE AND THE ALGORITHM 9 (luggage, airports, software, trains, tracks, hardware) on a moment to moment basis? Yet algorithmic writing also produces its own warnings. Taken together, writing on algorithms suggests that there is not one single matter of concern to take on and address. Alongside power, inscrutability and accountability, numerous questions are raised regarding the role of algorithms in making choices, political preferences, dating, employment, fnancial crises, death, war and terrorism (Crawford 2016; Karppi and Crawford 2016; Pasquale 2015; Schuppli 2014) among many other concerns. The suggestion is that algorithms do not operate in a single feld or produce effects in a single manner or raise a single question or even a neatly bounded set of questions. Instead, what is required is a means to make sense of algorithms as participants in an array of activities that are all bound up with the production of effects, some of which are unanticipated, some of which seem messy and some of which require careful analysis in order to be made to make sense. It is not the case that making sense of the life of our abandoned luggage algorithm will directly shed light on all these other activities. However, it will provide a basis for algorithmically focused research to move forward. This, I suggest, can take place through a turn to the everyday. Everyday Some existing academic work on algorithms engages with ‘algorithmic life’ (Amoore and Piotukh 2015). But this tends to mean the life of humans as seen (or governed) through algorithms. If we want to make sense of algorithms, we need to engage with their everyday life. However, rather than continually repeat the importance of ‘the everyday’ as if it is a concept that can somehow address all concerns with algorithms or is in itself available as a neat context within which things will make sense, instead I suggest we need to take seriously what we might 