right decisions. Instead, the strength of the algorithms is their effciency, with employment decisions made on a scale, at a speed and at a low cost that no conventional human resources department could match. In the USA, we are told of algorithmic policing that sets demands for police offcers to continually pursue the same neighbourhoods for potential crime.4 Predictive policing does not actively anticipate specifc crimes, but uses patterns of previous arrests to map out where future arrests should be made. The algorithms create their own effects as police offcers are held accountable by the algorithm for the responses they make to the system’s predictions. Once a neighbourhood has acquired a statistical pattern denoting high crime, its inhabitants will be zealously policed and frequently arrested, ensuring it maintains its high crime status. Meanwhile in Italy, Nutella launch a new marketing campaign in which an algorithm continually produces new labels for its food jars.5 Seven million distinct labels are produced, each feeding off an algorithmically derived set of colours and patterns that, the algorithm believes, 4 D. NEYLAND consumers will fnd attractive. The chance to own a limited edition Nutella design, combined with these newspaper stories and an advertising campaign, drives an algorithmically derived consumer demand. But the story is clear: it is not the labels that are unique in any important way. It is the algorithm that is unique. And in India, a robot that uses algorithms to detect patterns of activity in order to offer appropriate responses struggles with normativity.6 The robot fnds it hard to discern when it should be quiet or indeed noisier, what counts as a reasonable expectation of politeness, which subtle behavioural cues it should pick up on or to which it should respond. This is one small part of the unfolding development of algorithmic artifcial intelligence and the emergence of various kinds of robots that will apparently replace us humans. These stories are doubtless part of a global algorithmic drama. But in important ways, these stories promote drama at the expense of understanding. As Ziewitz (2016) asks: just what is an algorithm? In these stories, the algorithm seems to be a central character, but of what the algorithm consists, why, how it participates in producing effects is all left to one side. There are aspects of everyday life that are emphasised within these stories: employment, policing, consumer demand and robotics are each positioned in relation to an aspect of ordinary activity from job interviews, to arrests and court trials, from markets and investments to the future role of robots in shaping conversations. But—and this seems to be the important part—we are not provided with any great insight into the everyday life of the algorithm. Through what means are these algorithms produced in the frst place, how are they imagined, brought into being and put to work? Of what do the algorithms consist and to what extent do they change? What role can be accorded to the algorithm rather than the computational infrastructure within which it operates? And how can we capture the varied ways in which algorithms and everyday life participate in the composition of effects? These are the questions that this book seeks to engage. As I noted in the opening example of the instructions in various locations around my house, ordered sets of step-by-step routines can establish their own specifc demands and become entangled in some of the key social relations in which we participate. As I have further suggested in the preceding media stories, such ordered routines in the form of algorithms portray a kind of drama, but one that we need to cut through in order to investigate how the everyday and algorithms intersect. In the next section, 1 INTRODUCTION: EVERYDAY LIFE AND THE ALGORITHM 5 I will begin this task by working through some of the recent academic literature on algorithms. I will then pursue the everyday as an important foreground for the subsequent story of algorithms. Finally, I will set out the structure of the rest of this book. Algorithmic Discontent One obvious starting point for an enquiry into algorithms is to look at an algorithm. And here, despite the apparent drama of algorithmic opacity (in Fig. 1.1) is an algorithm: This is taken from a project that sought to develop an algorithmic surveillance system for airport and train station security (and is introduced in more detail along with the airport and train station and their peculiar characteristics in Chapter 2). The algorithm is designed as a set of ordered step-by-step instructions for the detection of abandoned luggage. It is similar in some respects to the instructions for my Fig. 1.1 Abandoned luggage algorithm 6 D. NEYLAND home heating system or my children’s Lego. It is designed as a way to order the steps necessary for an effect to be brought about by others. However, while my heating system instructions are 