shapes and formats the economy’ (1998: 2). Araujo thus suggests that performativity involves market and marketing type statements making themselves true by bringing into being the subject of the statement (2007: 218). 126 D. NEYLAND In relation to fnancial markets, MacKenzie looks at the ways in which the work of economists brings markets into being. MacKenzie (2003) suggests that traders use market models to inform their trades, creating market outcomes that match the models. Furthermore, economists’ market equations embody a world of relations, prices and outcomes that the use of an equation effectively constitutes. The work of economists can be understood in a similar manner to a Kuhnian problem–solution exemplar; the complexity of the world can be rendered more or less coherent through models and equations which appear to work (i.e. to bring a solution to a problem) and can thus be employed again in other similar situations. The models and equations become paradigmatic couplings of problems and solutions for others to use. As a result, the risks faced by market actors in an otherwise complex, messy and uncertain world become reconceptualised as more or less manageable. However, MacKenzie suggests that performativity is not a uniform phenomenon; instead he presents three approaches to performativity. First, there is ‘generic’ performativity in which: ‘an aspect of economics (a theory, model, concept, procedure, data set, etc.) is used by participants in economic processes, regulations, etc’ (2008: 17). Second, there is ‘effective’ performativity which involves: ‘the practical use of an aspect of economics that has an effect on economic processes’ (2008: 17). Third, drawing on the work of Barry Barnes, there is ‘Barnes-ian’ performativity in which: ‘Practical use of an aspect of economics makes economic processes more like their depiction by economists’ (2008: 17), and actions change in order to ‘better correspond to the model’ proposed by economists (2008: 19). We can see these approaches to performativity as moving from weakly formulated to more thorough forms of performativity. However, MacKenzie is clear that such models of performativity do not only operate in one direction. MacKenzie also introduces ‘counter performativity’ whereby: ‘practical use of an aspect of economics makes economic processes less like their depiction by economists’ (2008: 17). Although this provides a provocative set of ideas for thinking through how market value for the algorithmic system might be built, performativity has been critiqued for buying too readily into, or merely confrming, the terms of market participants (Riles 2010; Dorn 2012; Bryan et al. 2012; Foucarde 2007; with a response from MacKenzie and PardoGuerra 2013). For Lee and LiPuma: ‘The analytical problem is how to extend what has been a speech act-based notion of performativity to 6 MARKET VALUE AND THE EVERYDAY LIFE OF THE ALGORITHM 127 other discursively mediated practices, including ritual, economic practices, and even reading’ (2002: 193). To switch attention to economic processes requires an expansion of the remit of performativity and a rethinking of the centrality of communication (such as Austin’s utterances) and an incorporation of acting and doing. Incorporating this broader set of entities would move us towards an approach developed by Barad (2003) who suggests shifting performativity away from its starting point in studies of language use and questions of representation, towards action (a similar extension is proposed by Butler 1997, 2010). Although Barad is not focused on markets and forms of economic exchange in her discussion of performativity, the questions she raises appear to resonate with concerns posed to the STS move to engage with markets, calculation and measurement; that performativity might problematically narrow the focus for analytical action. Callon’s (2006, 2010) response to the critiques of performativity is that they continue (what he suggests is) Austin’s (1962) mistake of assuming statements are in some way separable from their social, cultural or political context. Instead, Callon argues for a need to explore the worlds performed into market action. This will be the starting point for our exploration of the project coordinators’ market work: just how do they perform a world of investment into being and what does this tell us of the everyday life of our algorithms? Building a Market Value for the Algorithms In the absence of reliable evidence of technical effcacy and given the apparent diffculties of putting on a convincing demonstration of the algorithms’ ability to grasp or compose everyday life, the coordinators drew together a variety of entities to participate in the building of a putative world into which investors could be invited. Building such a world was a complex task requiring calculative dexterity in order to render the emerging world convincing and legible in a document that could be sent to investors. It also 