61 to work, far greater amounts of data were required prior to the system operating (e.g. digitally mapping the fxed attributes of a setting such as an airport and fxing in place parameters for objects such as luggage and humans, producing bounding boxes, metadata, tracking movements, constituting a database of popular routes). The introduction of the algorithmic system also seemed to require a much more precise defnition of the account-able order of airport and train station surveillance activities. The form that the order took was both oriented to the project’s ethical aims and gave a specifc form to those aims. Yet this emerging form was also a concern for questions of accountability being asked on behalf of future data subjects—those who might be held to account by the newly emerging algorithmic system. The specifc material forms that were given to the project’s ethical aims—such as the User Interface and Route Reconstruction system— were beginning to intersect with accountability questions being raised by the ethics board. In particular, how could this mass of new data being produced ever meet the ethical aim to reduce data or the ethical aim to not develop new surveillance algorithms? In the next section, I will explore the challenges involved in this intersection of distinct registers of account by engaging with the work of the ethics board. Account-ability and Accountability Through the Ethics Board As I suggested in the opening to this chapter, formal means of accountability are not without their concerns. Unexpected consequences, rituals, the building of new assets are among an array of issues with which accountability can become entangled. In the algorithm project, the key entanglement was between the kinds of account-ability that we have seen developing in this chapter, through which the algorithms began to participate more thoroughly in everyday life, and accountability involving questions asked on behalf of future data subjects—those who might be subject to algorithmic decision-making. This latter approach to accountability derived from a series of expectations established in the initial project bid, among project partners and funders that somehow and in some way the ethical aims of the project required an organised form of assessment. This expectation derived partly from funding protocols that place a strong emphasis on research ethics, the promises of the original funding 62 D. NEYLAND proposal to develop an ethical system, and a growing sense among project participants that an ethical, accountable, algorithmic surveillance system might be a key selling point (see Chapter 6). This signalled a broadening in the register of accounts, from the algorithms participating in account-ability to the algorithms being subjected to accountability. The ethics board became the key means for managing the accountable and the account-able. It was not the case that the project could simply switch from one form of account to another or that one took precedence over the other. Instead, the project—and in particular me, as I was responsible for assessing the ethics of the emerging technology—had to fnd a way to bring the forms of account together. The ethics board was central to this as it provided a location where I could present the account-able order of the algorithmic surveillance system and provoke accountable questions of the algorithms. The ethics board comprised a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) working on redrafting the EU Data Protection Regulation, two national Data Protection Authorities (DPAs), two privacy academics and two members of privacy-focused civil liberty groups. The ethics board met three times during the course of the project, and during these meetings, I presented my developing study of the account-able order of the algorithmic system. I presented the ways in which the algorithmic system was involved in making sense of spaces like an airport and a train station, how it was expected to work with operatives’ everyday competences for securing those spaces and how the system gave form to the project’s ethical aims. In place of buying into the claims made on behalf of algorithms by other members of the project team or in popular and academic discussions of algorithms, I could present the account-able order as a more or less enduring, but also at times precarious focus for action. In response, members of the ethics board used my presentations along with demonstrations of the technology to open up the algorithmic system to a different form of accountability by raising questions to be included in public project reports and fed back into the ongoing project. Ethics board members drew on my presentations of the account-able order of the algorithmic system to orient their questions. In the frst ethics board meeting (held approximately ten months into the project), one of the privacy-focused academics pointed to the centrality of my presentation for their considerations: 3 ACCOUNTABILITY 