and accountabilities might have unintended consequences (Strathern 2000, 2002), might need to consider the constitution of audience (Neyland and Woolgar 2002), the enabling and constraining of agency (Law 1996), what works gets done (Mouritsen et al. 2001), who and what gets hailed to account (Munro 2001), the timing and spacing of accounts (Munro 2004) and their consequence. But as yet we have no strong grounds for assessing these potential outcomes of accountability in the feld of algorithms. And calls for algorithmic accountability have thus far mostly been focused on introducing a means whereby data subjects (those potentially subjected to algorithmic decision-making and their representatives) might be notifed and be given a chance to ask questions or challenge the algorithm. An audit would also require that the somewhat messy experimentation of Chapter 2, the different needs and expectations of various different partner organisations, my own struggles to fgure out what I was doing as an ethnographer would all be frozen in time and ordered into an account. The uncertainties of experimentation would need to be ignored, and my own ongoing questions would need to be side-lined to produce the kind of order in which formal processes of accountability excel. The everyday life of the algorithm would need to be overlooked. So what should an accountable algorithm look like? How could I, as an ethnographer of a developing project, work through a means to render the emerging algorithm accountable that respected these uncertainties, forms of experimentation and ongoing changes in the system but still provided a means for potential data subjects to raise questions? One starting point for moving from the kinds of formal processes of accountability outlined above to an approach specifcally attuned to algorithms is provided by Science and Technology Studies (STS). The recent history of anti-essentialist or post-essentialist research (Rappert 2001) in STS usefully warns us against attributing single, certain and fxed characteristics to things (and people). Furthermore, STS research on technologies, their development and messiness also suggests that we ought to maintain a deep scepticism to claims regarding the agency or power of technology to operate alone. As I suggested in the Introduction to this book, in STS work, the characteristics, agency, power and effect of technologies are often treated as the upshot of the network of relations within which a technology is positioned (Latour 1990; Law 1996). Rather than seeing agency or power as residing in the algorithm, as suggested by much of the recent algorithm literature, this STS approach 50 D. NEYLAND would be more attuned to raising questions about the set of relations that enable an algorithm to be brought into being. If we take accountability to mean opening up algorithms to question by data subjects and their representatives, this STS approach prompts some important challenges. We need to get close to the everyday life in which the algorithm participates in order to make sense of the relations through which it accomplishes its effects. We need to make this everyday life of the algorithm open to question. But then we also need to know something about how the algorithm is itself involved in accounting for everyday life. How can we make accountable the means through which the algorithm renders the world accountable? The ethical aims to see less and store less data provided one basis for holding the system to account, but developing the precise method for rendering the algorithmic system accountable was to be my responsibility. Traditional approaches to ethical assessment have included consequentialist ethics (whereby the consequences of a technology, e.g., would be assessed) and deontological ethics (whereby a technology would be assessed in relation to a set of ethical principles; for a discussion, see Sandvig et al. 2013). However, these traditional approaches seemed to ft awkwardly with the STS approach and its post-essentialist warnings. To judge the consequences of the algorithm or to what extent an algorithm matched a set of deontological principles appeared to require the attribution of fxed characteristics and a fxed path of future development to the algorithm while it was still under experimentation (and, for all I knew, this might be a ceaseless experimentation, without end). As a counter to these approaches, ethnography seemed to offer an alternative. In place of any assumptions at the outset regarding the nature and normativity of algorithms, their system, the space, objects or people with whom they would interact in the project (a deontological ethics), my ethnography might provide a kind of unfolding narrative of the nature of various entities and how these might be made accountable. However, unlike a consequentialist ethics whereby the outcomes of the project could be assessed against a fxed set of principles, I instead suggested that an in-depth 