Modern Approach (International Edition). Pearson: Harlow, Essex. Sterman JD (2000). Business Dynamics: Systems Thinking for a Complex World. McGraw- Hill: NY. Swinerd C and McNaught KR (2014). Simulating the diffusion of technological innovation with an integrated hybrid agent-based system dynamics model. Journal of Simulation. Ahead of print. doi: 10.1057/jos.2014.2. Taylor SJE, Balci O, Cai W, Loper M, Nicol D and Riley G (2013b). Grand challenges in modeling and simulation: Expanding our horizons. In: Proceedings of the 2013 SIGSIM- PADS Conference, ACM Press: NY, pp 403􏰀408. 10 Simon JE Taylor Taylor SJE, Brailsford S, Chick SE, L’Ecuyer P, Macal CM and Nelson B (2013c). Modeling and simulation grand challenges: An OR/MS perspective. In: Proceedings of the 2013 Winter Simulation Conference, ACM Press: NY, pp 1269􏰀1282. Taylor SJE, Eldabi T, Riley G, Paul RJ and Pidd M (2009). Simulation modeling is 50! Do we need a reality check? Journal of the Operational Research Society 60(supplement 1): S69􏰀S82. Taylor SJE, Fishwick PA, Fujimoto R, Page EH, Uhrmacher AM and Wainer G (2012). Panel on grand challenges for modeling and simulation. In: Proceedings of the 2012 Winter Simulation Conference, Article No. 232, ACM Press: NY. Taylor SJE, Khan A, Morse KL, Tolk A, Yilmaz L and Zander J (2013a). Grand challenges on the theory of modeling and simulation. In: Proceedings of the 2013 Symposium on the Theory of Modeling and Simulation, Article No. 34, SCS: Vista, CA. Tocher KD and Owen DG (1960). The automatic programming of simulations. In: Banbury J and Maitland J (eds). Proceedings of the Second Conference of the International Federation of OR Societies, Aix-En-Province. English Universities Press: London, pp 50􏰀60. Tocher KD (1963). The Art of Simulation. English Universities Press: London. Viana J, Brailsford SC, Harindra V and Harper PR (2014). Combining discrete-event simulation and system dynamics in a healthcare setting: A composite model for Chlamydia infection. European Journal of Operational Research. In press. doi: 10.1016/j. ejor.2014.02.052. Waldrop MM (1993). Complexity: The Emerging Science at the Edge of Order and Chaos. Simon & Schuster: NY. 2 Tutorial on agent-based modeling and simulation CM Macal1,2 and MJ North1,2 1Center for Complex Adaptive Agent Systems Simulation, Decision & Information Sciences Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Il, USA; and 2Computation Institute, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Il, USA Agent-based modeling and simulation (ABMS) is a relatively new approach to modeling systems composed of autonomous, interacting agents. Agent-based modeling is a way to model the dynamics of complex systems and complex adaptive systems. Such systems often self-organize themselves and create emergent order. Agent-based models also include models of behaviour (human or otherwise) and are used to observe the collective effects of agent behaviours and interactions. The development of agent modeling tools, the availability of micro-data, and advances in computation have made possible a growing number of agent-based applications across a variety of domains and disciplines. This article provides a brief introduction to ABMS, illustrates the main concepts and foundations, discusses some recent applications across a variety of disciplines, and identifies methods and toolkits for developing agent models. 1 Introduction Agent-based modeling and simulation (ABMS) is a relatively new approach to modeling complex systems composed of interacting, autonomous ‘agents’. Agents have behaviours, often described by simple rules, and interactions with other agents, which in turn influence their behaviours. By modeling agents individually, the full effects of the diversity that exists among agents in their attributes and behaviours can be observed as it gives rise to the behaviour of the system as a whole. By modeling systems from the ‘ground up’—agent- by-agent and interaction-by-interaction—self-organization can often be observed in such models. Patterns, structures, and behaviours emerge that were not explicitly programmed into the models, but arise through the agent interactions. The emphasis on modeling the heterogeneity of agents across a population and the emergence of self-organization are two of the Reprinted with permission from the Operational Research Society Ltd. All rights reserved. 1747-7778, Journal of Simulation, (2010) 4(3), 151􏰀162. 11 12 CM Macal and MJ North distinguishing features of agent-based simulation as compared to other simulation techniques such as discrete-event simulation and system dynamics. Agent-based modeling offers a way to model social systems that are composed of agents who interact with and influence each other, learn from their experiences, and adapt their behaviours so they are better suited to their environment. Applications of agent-based modeling span a broad range of areas and disciplines. Applications range from modeling agent behaviour in the 