activities and possibly pass on infections. Agents also are members of social networks that model the likelihood of contact with relatives and friends. An agent’s neighbourhood is a general concept applicable to whatever agent spaces are defined in the model. For example, an agent could interact only with its neighbours located close-by in physical (or geographical) space as well as neighbour agents located close-by in its social space as specified by the agent’s social network. Originally, spatial agent-based models were implemented in the form of cellular automata (CA). Conway’s Game of Life (Gardner, 1970) is a good example. CA represent agent interaction patterns and available local informa- tion by using a grid or lattice environment. The cells immediately surrounding an agent are its neighbourhood. Each cell can be interpreted as an agent that interacts with a fixed set of neighbouring cells. The cell (agent) state is either ‘on’ or ‘off’ at any time. Most early spatial agent-based models had the form of a CA. Epstein and Axtell’s Sugarscape model is an example (Epstein and Axtell, 1996). In Sugarscape, the topology was more complex than in a simple CA. Agents were mobile and able to move from cell to cell. The grid essentially became the agents’ environment. Agents were able to acquire resources from the environment that were distributed spatially across the grid. Other agent interaction topologies are now commonly used for modeling agent interactions (Figure 2.3). In the CA model, agents move from cell to cell on a grid and no more than a single agent occupies a cell at one time. The von Neumann ‘5-neighbour’ neighbourhood is shown in Figure 2.3a; the ‘9-neighbour’ Moore neighbourhood is also common. In the Euclidean space model, agents roam in two, three or higher dimensional spaces (Figure 2.3b). Networks allow an agent’s neighbourhood to be defined more generally. For the network topology, networks may be static or dynamic (Figure 2.3c). In static networks, links are pre-specified and do not change. For dynamic networks, links, and possibly nodes, are determined endogenously according to the mechanisms programmed in the model. In the geographic information system (GIS) topology, agents move from patch to patch over a realistic geo-spatial landscape (Figure 2.3d). In the ‘soup’, or aspatial model, agents have no location because it is not important (Figure 2.3e); pairs of agents are randomly selected for interaction and then returned to the soup as candidates for future selection. Many agent-based models include agents interacting in multiple topologies. 2.5 Agent environment Agents interact with their environment and with other agents. The environ- ment may simply be used to provide information on the spatial location of an agent relative to other agents or it may provide a rich set of geographic Tutorial on agent-based modeling and simulation 19 Figure 2.3 Topologies for agent relationships and social interaction information, as in a GIS. An agent’s location, included as a dynamic attribute, is sometimes needed to track agents as they move across a landscape, contend for space, acquire resources, and encounter other situations. Complex environ- mental models can be used to model the agents’ environment. For example, hydrology or atmospheric dispersion models can provide point location- specific data on groundwater levels or atmospheric pollutants, respectively, which are accessible by agents. The environment may thus constrain agent actions. For example, the environment in an agent-based transportation model would include the infrastructure and capacities of the nodes and links of the road network. These capacities would create congestion effects (reduced travel speeds) and limit the number of agents moving through the transportation network at any given time. 3 Agent-based modeling applications 3.1 The nature of agent-based model applications Agent-based modeling has been used in an enormous variety of applications spanning the physical, biological, social, and management sciences. Applica- tions range from modeling ancient civilizations that have been gone for hundreds of years to modeling how to design new markets that do not 20 CM Macal and MJ North currently exist. Several agent-based modeling applications are summarized in this section, but the list is only a small sampling. Several of the papers covered here make the case that agent-based modeling, versus other modeling techniques is necessary because agent-based models can explicitly model the complexity arising from individual actions and interactions that exist in the real world. Agent-based model structure spans a continuum, from elegant, minimalist academic models to large-scale decision support systems. Minimalist models are based on a set of idealized assumptions, designed to capture only the most salient features of a system. Decision support models tend to serve large-scale applications, are designed to answer real-world policy 