required imagination to conjure the entities to be calculated and a compelling narrative into which they could be woven. Still this would be nothing more than a putative world of potential investment. For it to be given performative effect required buy-in from the investors. First, complex, dextrous and imaginative preparation work took place. The project coordinators segmented the world into geographical regions to be accorded more value (Central and South America with strong 128 D. NEYLAND predicted growth rates in video-based surveillance), even more value (Canada and Europe with a growing interest in video-based surveillance and a burgeoning privacy-interested legislature and lobby) or less value (the USA with apparently less interest in privacy and a saturated market place for smart video analytics). These segmented geographies were not left as vaguely valued territories, but transformed into specifc and precise calculations of Compound Annual Growth Rates (CAGRs) derived from a combination of expensive industry reports the coordinators had purchased and online sources. In this way, the market for video-based surveillance analysis was calculated to have a CAGR of 15.6% between 2010 and 2016. This was then broken down into the more and less attractive geographical segments previously described. This provided a very hesitant initial set of calculations on which to build an investment proposition: geographies were segmented and calculated. However, this dextrous and imaginative work to separate and calculate did not end here. Customers were treated in much the same way. Hence governments were identifed as a particular type of customer, tied to more or less attractive geographies. The more attractive governments were calculated as accounting for 17.59% of the video surveillance market and as more likely to be compelled into buying a deletion technology in order to promote their own privacy sensitive credentials. Transport frms were another customer type segmented and calculated as accounting for a further 11% of the video surveillance market with a predicted CAGR of 13.39% between 2010 and 2016. Major transport-based terror attacks were invoked as a basis for this growth in investment, but transport organisations were also identifed as another potentially privacy-concerned customer (this despite the transport companies involved in this project seeming to lose interest in privacy as the project developed). Specifc technological developments were also given the same treatment, with pixel numbers, high defnition cameras and algorithmic forms of data analysis all separated and calculated as growth areas. Finally, video-based surveillance processes such as data storage were also separated out and calculated as a growth area, but with a growing storage cost— the kind of cost that could be reduced through deletion. Although this separation and calculation work was directed towards building a putative world into which investors might become enwrapped, the coordinators also worked to distinguish entities as outside or external to this world of potential relations. Hence 44 competitors were also identifed, ranked 6 MARKET VALUE AND THE EVERYDAY LIFE OF THE ALGORITHM 129 according to size and spend, and their particular video-based, algorithmic data analysis systems were presented in terms of their inferior capabilities. This despite our algorithms continually running into problems. The work here by the coordinators was similar to that carried out by our algorithms. Separating out, calculating, preparing and qualifying some entities while disqualifying others (such as competitors), grasping features of the world out there and bringing them to the system, provided the basis for building a potential world of investment relations. Alongside segmented geographies, everything from governments to pixel numbers became entities of this putative market work. The entities segmented and qualifed (and disqualifed) were drawn together into the world of relations in a document entitled ‘The Exploitation Report’. Here the qualifed (and disqualifed) entities made sense as providing a basis for investment. At the centre of this world of relations, however, sat our algorithms, the system architecture, its components, and the deleting machine as an investment vehicle whose technical effcacy remained absent from accounts. Technical capabilities remained silent, rendering the Report’s content accountably certain and ordered. The preparatory calculations embedded in the Report and the censure of any uncertainty in terms of the demonstrable proof of technical effcacy would now provide the basis for performatively accomplishing an effect: building a world of investors. Through convincing investors that the Report was compelling proof of the viability of investment and that the technological system qualifed as a reasonable investment risk, the coordinators hoped to also build investors into the world of the algorithms. Inclusions, 