following the GC Panel at the 2013 Winter Simulation Conference (Taylor, et al 2013c), there was a rather lively discussion about whether or not a general purpose DES package could be used for ABMS rather than using a specially designed ABMS toolkit. The two views were Introducing agent-based modeling and simulation 5 essentially that a DES package could, depending on the package, be used for ABMS but an ABMS toolkit has dedicated support for agent-based simulation that would have to be recreated in the DES package. What was common to both views was that both were taking an ABMS approach and that the debate was which simulation software to use. Today, simulation software is very advanced and some DES software can be made to behave in an ABMS-like manner with some effort. Indeed, some simulation packages can support multi-modeling and support ABMS, DES and SD. The papers of this OR Essentials collection will help in understanding what is really meant by ABMS. However, the following section expands each of the above elements of ABMS and might be taken into account when deciding to use ABMS. 2.1 Agents An agent is autonomous, is self-directed and can function independently of other agents and the environment. An agent has a clear boundary between itself, other agents and its environment. It is a clearly identifiable ‘individual’ that is self-contained and uniquely identifiable. Each agent can be distinguished from every other agent by its attributes. These attributes form an agent’s state, typically a collection of variables. The state of an agent-based simulation is the collection of every agent’s state and the environment. Agents interact with and react to other agents and their environment. An agent bases its decisions through that interaction. Agent behaviours may be represented by simple collections of if-then-else rules, complex artificial intelligence techniques (neural networks, genetic programs, machine learn- ing, etc) (Russell and Norvig, 1998), or even by sub-models (which in turn may be other forms of M&S). As an agent-based simulation progresses, the interactions of an agent with itself, other agents and the environment change the agent’s state. In an agent-based simulation there might be several different types, or classes, of agents. 2.2 Agent relationships Agent relationships or interactions can be simple or extremely complex. A general principle of modularity exists and factors such as coupling and cohesion that exist in software engineering are in play. For example, if two types of agent have an extremely complex and tightly coupled relationship where their functional boundary is difficult to define, then the two types of agent might be better conceptualized as a single agent. Agent relationships must be clearly specified and the boundaries between agents must be clear. The reason for this is that agents must be capable of autonomy—an agent must be capable of making its decisions based on its own state and that of the environment. Not all agents must interact with every other agent. If an agent needs to make a decision based on the state of another agent then it must interact with that agent to discover it. Connections between agents can be 6 Simon JE Taylor described by the ‘topology’ of the agent-based model, that is, a logical or physical (or both) map of the agents and their interconnectivity. This topology can change during the simulation. 2.3 Agent environment The environment is the elements of the system that agents interact with and is not considered as being an agent in its own right, that is, it is passive and global (it does not actively assert behaviour and it potentially affects all agents). It may have a simple or complex boundary, depending on the system being modeled. 3 Overview of OR Essentials: agent-based modeling and simulation To further introduce ABMS and related key issues, this edition of the OR Essentials Series brings together a series of introductory and advanced research articles on ABMS. This section gives an overview of each of the collected articles. The articles appear in four groups. The first (Chapters 2 and 3) discusses contemporary ABMS and its evolution. The second (Chapters 4􏰀13) present different applications of ABMS including health, crisis management, commerce, manufacturing, finance and defence. The third (Chapters 14 and 15) addresses methodological and pedagogical aspects of ABMS. The fourth and final (Chapter 16) is a single article that reflects on the claimed uniqueness of ABMS. Chapters 2 and 3 start the discussion on ABMS and its beginnings. Macal and North in their tutorial on agent-based modeling and simulation, introduce ABMS as a way of studying complex adaptive systems and their dynamics. They discuss the main concepts and foundations of ABMS as well as approaches to modeling agent behaviour and their emergent properties and interactions. Examples of applications, methods and toolkits for ABMS are also presented. Heath and Hill give a 