experimentation and accountability that never disappeared even as the project moved towards more thorough system testing in the train station and airport was the focus on storing less data. We have already seen that it took a great deal of effort to utilise algorithms to select out such matters as human-shaped and luggage-shaped objects and then to deem these relevant as, for example, abandoned luggage and issue an alert to operatives. What we have not seen yet is the struggle to delete the vast majority of data deemed irrelevant. Computer scientists from Universities 1 and 2 spent some time in meetings taking project members through conventions for deletion. Most forms of deletion, it turned out, either left a trace of the original from which data might be extracted or simply changed the route through which a user might connect to data (meaning the data itself would potentially be retrievable). The computer scientists, the consulting frm coordinating the project, the ethics board, StateTrack and SkyPort entered into discussion of what might provide an adequate form of deletion. For the computer scientists, changing the route for accessing information was an elegant solution (see Chapter 2 for more on elegance): it was an available, standard practice, and it would satisfy the project’s ethical aims to the extent that it would match most other forms of deletion. However, the project coordinators sought a more thorough form of deletion—they were already looking to the potential market value (see Chapter 6) of a deleting machine. Expunging data from the system, overwriting data and corrupting data were all suggested as more thorough forms of deletion. Hence the algorithms would not just participate in making sense of everyday life, start to produce outputs that would subtly compose everyday life and become a feature of the everyday (on this, see Chapters 5 and 6): the algorithms would also start to delete, remove and reduce everyday life. 4 THE DELETING MACHINE AND ITS DISCONTENTS 75 The elegant and accountable algorithms would be attuned to this negation of the everyday. The chapter begins by considering a means for grasping the everyday life of algorithmic deletion. It then looks at the deletion system in action to consider what it takes for our algorithms to be successful in not just identifying relevance but deleting irrelevance. The chapter concludes with some of the concerns that began to arise with deletion in the project and the future this portends. Deletion and the Algorithm Deletion and accountability are not only ethical aims of this project. Within the European Union, there has been a twin policy response to issues of algorithms and privacy through the right to be forgotten combined with a right to accountability. Current policy developments in Brussels anticipate that algorithms will be prevented from amassing and analysing data at will, through clear limitations on what data can be collected, how it can be used, how long it will be stored and the means of deletion. These principles will also be made accountable, even if it is not always clear what form that accountability will take. For the coordinators of the project that features in this book, deletion, as one part of an ethical and accountable algorithmic system, might provide a means to respond to these policy demands. The ethical aims might have market value. These policy moves emerged through the complex and lengthy political developments that take place in the EU. The move to articulate and institute a ‘right to be forgotten’ or ‘right to erasure’ has been a feature of the revision of the EU Data Protection Directive (Directive 95/46/ EC) into the new EU General Data Protection Regulation. As Bernal highlights, the right has become defned as ‘the right of individuals to have their data no longer processed, and deleted when they are no longer needed for legitimate purposes’ (2011: n.p.). This sits alongside a move to establish a basis for accountability. The EU Article 29 Working Party on Data Protection has issued an Accountability Principle which sets out a provision: ‘to ensure that the principles and obligations set out in the [Data Protection] Directive [now a Regulation] are complied with and to demonstrate so to supervisory authorities upon request’ (2010: 2). In this way, the principle of accountability is designed to ensure a transition from Data Protection in theory to practice and to provide the means to assess that this shift has adequately taken place. 76 D. NEYLAND Within the development of the new European General Data Protection Regulation, these two moves have become combined such that to delete, must also become an accountable feature of activities; organisations must be able to demonstrably prove they have taken on responsibility for deletion and removed ‘our’ data. Although discussions of the Article 29 Working Party Accountability Principle and the proposed and critiqued revisions of the EU General Data Protection Act 