made. The images or other third party material in this chapter are included in the chapter’s Creative Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the chapter’s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. 45 Abstract This chapter develops insights on human-shaped objects and elegance in exploring the possibility of rendering the everyday life of algorithms accountable and the form such accountability might take. Although algorithmic accountability is currently framed in terms of openness and transparency, the chapter draws on ethnographic engagements with the algorithmic system under development to show empirically the diffculties (and indeed pointlessness) of achieving this kind of openness. Rather than presenting an entirely pessimistic view, the chapter suggests that alternative forms of accountability are possible. In place of transparency, the chapter focuses on science and technology studies (STS) work that pursues the characteristics, agency, power and effect of technologies as the upshot of the network of relations within which a technology is positioned. Moving away from the idea that algorithms have fxed, essential characteristics or straightforward power or agency, opens up opportunities for developing a distinct basis of accountability in action. Keywords Accountability · Agency · Power · Effects · Transparency Opening Simply being able to see an algorithm in some ways displaces aspects of the drama that I noted in the Introduction to this book. If one of the major concerns with algorithms is their opacity, then being able CHAPTER 3 Accountability and the Algorithm © The Author(s) 2019 D. Neyland, The Everyday Life of an Algorithm, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-00578-8_3 46 D. NEYLAND to look at our abandoned luggage algorithm would be a step forward. However, as I have also tried to suggest thus far in this book, looking at a set of IF-THEN rules is insuffcient on its own to render an algorithm accountable. Algorithms combine with system architectures, hardware components, software/code, people, spaces, experimental protocols, results, tinkering and an array of other entities through which they take shape. Accountability for the algorithm would amount to not just seeing the rules (a limited kind of transparency) but making sense of the everyday life of the algorithm—a form of accountability in action. In this chapter, we will move on with the project on airport and train station security and the development of our algorithm to try and explore a means by which accountability might be accomplished. We will again look at the question of how an algorithm can participate in everyday life, but now with an interest in how that everyday life might be opened to account. We will also look further at how an algorithmic means to make sense of things becomes the everyday and what this means for accountability. And we will explore how algorithms don’t just participate in the everyday but also compose the everyday. The chapter will begin by setting out a possible means to think through algorithmic accountability. In place of focusing on the abandoned luggage algorithm, we will look at how the algorithmic system makes sense of and composes the everyday through its User Interface and Route Reconstruction system. Then, we will consider a different form of accountability through an ethics board. The chapter will conclude with some suggestions on the everyday life of algorithmic accountability. Accountability Within the project we are considering, the ethical aims put forward from the original bid onwards were to reduce the amount of visual data made visible within a video surveillance system, to reduce the amount of data that gets stored and to do so without developing new algorithms. These were positioned as a basis on which my ethnographic work could hold the system to account. They were also presented as a potential means to address popular concerns regarding questions of algorithmic openness and transparency, at least theoretically enabling the algorithm, its authorship and consequences to be called to question by those subject to algorithmic decision-making processes (James 2013; Diakopoulos 2013). A more accountable algorithm might address concerns expressed 3 ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE ALGORITHM 47 in terms of the ability of algorithms to trap us and control our lives (Spring 2011), produce new ways to undermine our privacy (Stalder and Mayer 2009) and have power, an independent agency to infuence everyday activities (Beer 2009; Lash 2007; Slavin 2011). A formal process of accountability might also help overcome the troubling opacity of algorithms, addressing Slavin’s concern that: ‘We’re writing things we can no longer read’ (2011: n.p.). However, the social science literature provides a variety of 