experimental conditions to understand what is causing the lengthy waiting times and the possible impact of different strategies to alleviate them. M&S draws from disciplines such as mathematics, operational research, computer science, statistics, physics and engineering and encapsulates a wide range of methods and technologies that enable the investigation and analysis in broad set of application areas such as biology, commerce, defence, healthcare, logistics, manufacturing, services, supply chains and transportation. Although the roots of M&S can arguably be traced back to the origins of the Monte Carlo method in Buffon’s needle experiment in 1777 (corrected by Laplace in 1812— the experiment is commonly called as the Buffon-Laplace Needle Problem), advancements in simulation and computer technology made during World War II provided the foundation for modern day M&S (Goldsman, Nance and Wilson, 2010). In the 1950s these techniques and technologies were applied to the investigation of industrial systems. Two key simulation techniques emerged from these efforts: discrete-event simulation (DES) and system dynamics (SD). 1 2 Simon JE Taylor Fundamental to both techniques is how we represent a system and how it changes over time. Early work in DES by K.D. Tocher (Tocher, 1960; Tocher 1963; Hollocks, 2008) recognized how a system could be modeled as a set instantaneous state changes in time (events) organized into activities. Each activity has a start event and an end event. Entities pass through a simulation engaging in interdependent cycles of various activities (eg, parts passing through a set of machining activities). Early representations of these cycles were referred to as wheel charts or activity cycle diagrams. Today, some commercial DES software still echo Tocher’s work and allow modelers to represent systems as networks of queues and activities (sometimes called a queuing network model or process model). Law (2014) and Robinson (2014) are good textbooks for those wanting to find out more about this technique. Independently, Forrester introduced a different approach to analysing industrial systems by considering a system as consisting of cyclical interdependent subsystems or causal loops, and created the foundations of SD simulation (Forrester, 1961). Instead of a network of queues and activities, SD can represent a system as a set of causal loops in a causal loop diagram that describes how the components of the system interact (and importantly feedback). The use of stocks and flows allow an SD model to be quantified and simulated. A stock is an entity that can increase or decrease in amount as it passes through a flow that defines the rate of change. See Sterman (2000) for more details on SD. Both DES and SD are supported by many software tools and languages (up-to-date lists of indicative software can be found on Wikipedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_discrete_ event_simulation_software and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_system_ dynamics_software). Jahangirian, et al (2009) review M&S across a range of disciplines and Taylor, et al (2009) profile M&S publishing trends. Nance and Sargent (2002), Robinson (2005), Hollocks (2006), Forrester (2007) and Richardson (2011) present reviews and reflections on the history aspects of M&S. DES and SD are two powerful techniques that can be used to model and simulate a huge range of systems. However, in complex adaptive systems, where the behaviour of the system ‘emerges’ from the interaction of large numbers of entities, these techniques can be difficult to use. As will be seen in the collection of papers in this OR Essentials, agent-based modeling and simulation (ABMS), the third major M&S technique, began to evolve in the late 1980s driven by the need to conveniently study complex adaptive systems. The next section introduces its key concepts. 2 Agent-based modeling and simulation One of the best introductions to ABMS is Macal and North’s Tutorial (Macal and North 2010; Chapter 2 in this collection) and this section uses their Introducing agent-based modeling and simulation 3 definitions to outline ABMS. They introduce ABMS as having roots in the investigation of complex systems (Waldrop, 1993; Flake, 2000), complex adaptive systems (Holland, 1992; Lansing, 2003) and artificial life (Langton, 1995). Arguably, therefore, ABMS has evolved as a ‘natural’ response to the needs of complex systems modeling. A question that a student interested in this subject should always keep an open mind as to which modeling technique(s) could be used to study a system. As will be seen in this collection, ABMS allows some systems to be represented in a more rational and comprehensible way than would be the case with other M&S techniques. In DES we focus on how entities pass through a network of queues and activities, in SD we focus on stocks (entities), their flows and their interdependence, and in ABMS we focus on the agents and their relationships with each other 