or into a forbidden space. Once an object was given a bounding box and metadata had started to be produced on its dimensions, and the speed and direction of the box was noted in its movement across the screen, then object tracking needed to take on the complexities of the train station and airport. The bounding box had to be tracked across one camera’s visible range, but also between cameras in the train station and airport where the system searched for other bounding boxes of the same dimensions, relative to camera position, angle and zoom. To know that a human-shaped object on camera 17 was then the same human-shaped object that appeared on camera 18 and was the same human-shaped object that had previously appeared on cameras 11, 7, and 6, required a sophisticated form of tracking. Calculating objects in this way involved what the computer scientists termed Tsai calibrations. These did not operate using pixels alone, but rather by working out the position of an object relative to a camera, its position, angle and zoom, and then counting the number of pixels to fgure out the dimensions of that object in centimetres relative to its distance and angle from a camera. Knowing the size in centimetres of an object in the space of the train station and airport would enable object tracking to happen. But to calculate the size of an object in centimetres (rather than just its size on a screen), the world of the video stream had 86 D. NEYLAND to be connected to the world of measurement in the space where the camera was located (the airport or train station) and the world of the objects within the video stream had to be connected to the world out there of people, luggage, etc. This was accomplished by measuring the space seen by a camera and then incorporating those measurements into a topological database drawn on by the Event Detection component of the algorithmic system. Eleven conversion coeffcients including angle and zoom of the camera in relation to the world-out-there measurements were now involved in producing an object’s size and initiating object tracking. In this way, demarcating relevant from irrelevant data in the everyday space of the train station and airport, in contrast to the experimental space where all measurements were more or less already fxed and known, required more qualculative work. Judgements had to be made on what might work as a basis for connecting the images on the video stream to the objects that they referenced in the airport or train station. Accurate measurements of the space had to be compiled in a database. And this database had to be combined with the database of popular routes, the metadata on size, speed and direction of bounding boxes, and the algorithmic IF-THEN rules in order to build the sausage of data around an image that we looked at in Chapter 3. Without these efforts, all data except for the single images of luggage once it was abandoned or a human-shaped object moving the wrong way or into a forbidden space would be deemed irrelevant and deleted. Qualculative work to connect the airport and train station space to the video data fowing through the algorithmic system was needed to prepare data for deletion or salvation. This qualifying work, separating things out, drawing them together into classifcations, working through IF-THEN rules to further qualify whether an image needed to be seen by operatives, was directed towards reducing the amount of video-based data made visible and the amount of data stored and achieving the project’s ethical aims. Qualculative work was complex in that it involved detailed efforts to know the everyday space in which the surveillance system operated, build that space into the algorithmic system, and come up with a means to identify and qualify relevant objects. However, this was merely a frst step in the move towards deletion. Achieving the project’s ethical aims required a combination of this notable something—a potentially relevant event from which to issue 4 THE DELETING MACHINE AND ITS DISCONTENTS 87 an alert—and a broad aggregate category of nothing—the irrelevant data to be deleted. This also required that the nothing itself became accountable. What was deleted had to be demonstrably seen to be deleted. In part this involved gathering all the data not seen by operatives along with those clips deemed irrelevant by operatives and deleting that data. However, it also involved retaining the orderly integrity of the accountability process imagined in relation to the initial qualculation process. Deletion needed to follow a similar logic to that of background subtraction and object classifcation which were expected to be appropriately qualifed and made available for accountable judgement. In this project, to generate accountable certainty, the system was designed to work in the following ways. A secure erase module (SEM) would be built of three sub-modules: a secure erasure scheduler (SES); a secure erase agent (SEEA); and a log 