interesting proposition for project participants, questions were immediately raised regarding my ability to be both in the project (on the inside) and offer an ethical assessment (something deemed to be required from the outside). I suggested that during the course of the project I could use the emerging ethnography of system development to present the developing algorithm to various audiences who might feedback interesting and challenging questions, I could set up meetings with individuals who might provide feedback on the developing technology and I would put together an ethics board. The latter would be outsiders to the project, enabling me to move between an inside and outside position, working with, for example, the computer scientists in the project at some points and with the ethics board members at other moments. As we will see in Chapter 3, this ethical assessment formed one part of a series of questions regarding accountability that were never singularly resolved in the project. However, for now, at the outset, my role as ethnographer was more or less accepted, if not yet defned. But what of the algorithms? In these early project meetings when I was still developing a sense of what the project was, what the technology might be, and what the challenges of my participation might involve, algorithms still retained their mystery. In line with academic writing on algorithms that emphasises their opacity (see Introduction to this book), at this moment the nature and potential of algorithms in the project was unclear. Occasionally during these meetings, algorithms were mentioned, and most project participants seemed to agree with the computer scientists from University 1 and University 2 that the ‘algorithms’ were sets of IF-THEN rules, already complete with associated software/code that could be ‘dropped into’ the system. The system seemed to be the thing that needed to be developed, not the algorithms. As we will see, this notion of ‘dropping in’ an algorithm turned out to be a wildly speculative and over-optimistic assessment of the role and ability of algorithms, but for now in project meetings, the system was key. Establishing the precise set-up for the algorithmic system under development involved the computer scientists and transport frms involved in the project (the airport and train operator) discussing frst steps in technology development. Although this could be described as a negotiation, 2 EXPERIMENTATION WITH A PROBABLE HUMAN-SHAPED OBJECT 27 it mostly seemed to involve the computer scientists proposing system components and then later an order of system components (more or less setting out how data would fow through the system and how each component could talk to each other) and then the transport frms would respond. There was never an occasion where the transport frms would make the frst proposal. This seemed to be a result of the meetings being framed as technical discussions primarily, rather than being focused on, for example, usability. It was also the case that with more than a decade of experience in developing these systems, University 1 and University 2 computer scientists could talk with a fuency, eloquence and technical mastery that no one else could match. When the computer scientists made a proposal, it was up to the transport frms to accept or not the proposal and then it was down to the computer scientists to make any necessary adjustments. But working together in this kind of complex multiparty, international project was not entirely straightforward. The experience of the computer scientists in developing these kinds of systems was thus a welcome contribution to the project in itself. It established a way of working that others could ft in with. Its absence might have meant a signifcant number of meetings to decide on ways of meeting. The meetings became framed as technical matters in which the computer scientists would lead partly because of the lack of any alternative way to frame meetings that anyone put forward. The ethnographer certainly didn’t propose to have meetings framed around ethnography (at least not yet, see Chapters 3 and 5). The meetings worked as follows. The participants would be gathered around a semicircle of tables or, on one occasion, an oval table, with a screen and projector at one end. Onto the screen would be projected a technical matter under discussion—often the system architecture. This set out the distinct components of the system under development and the role such components might play. Discussions in meetings then focused on the implications of setting up the system in one way or another, along with discussions of individual components of the system and, in early meetings, new components that might be needed. One computer scientist would sit at a laptop linked to the projector with the system architecture on their screen and make adjustments as discussions continued so that meeting participants could further discuss the emerging system. As 