stock market (Arthur et al, 1997) and supply chains (Macal, 2004a) to predicting the spread of epidemics (Bagni et al, 2002) and the threat of bio-warfare (Carley et al, 2006), from modeling the adaptive immune system (Folcik et al, 2007) to understanding consumer purchasing behaviour (North et al, 2009), from understanding the fall of ancient civilizations (Kohler et al, 2005) to modeling the engagement of forces on the battlefield (Moffat et al, 2006) or at sea (Hill et al, 2006), and many others. Some of these applications are small but elegant models, which include only the essential details of a system, and are aimed at developing insights into a social process or behaviour. Other agent-based models are large scale in nature, in which a system is modeled in great detail, meaning detailed data are used, the models have been validated, and the results are intended to inform policies and decision making. These applications have been made possible by advances in the development of specialized agent- based modeling software, new approaches to agent-based model development, the availability of data at increasing levels of granularity, and advancements in computer performance. Several indicators of the growing interest in agent-based modeling include the number of conferences and workshops devoted entirely to or having tracks on agent-based modeling, the growing number of peer-reviewed publications in discipline-specific academic journals across a wide range of application areas as well as in modeling and simulation journals, the growing number of openings for people specializing in agent-based modeling, and interest on the part of funding agencies in supporting programmes that require agent-based models. For example, a perusal of the programme for a recent Winter Simulation Conference revealed that 27 papers had the word ‘agent’ in the title or abstract (see http://www.wintersim.org/pastprog.htm). This article provides a brief introduction to ABMS. We illustrate the main concepts of agent-based modeling (Section 2), discuss some recent applications across a variety of disciplines (Section 3), and identify methods and toolkits for developing agent models (Section 4). 2 Agent-based modeling 2.1 Agent-based modeling and complexity ABMS can be traced to investigations into complex systems (Weisbuch, 1991), complex adaptive systems (Kauffman, 1993; Holland, 1995), and artificial life Tutorial on agent-based modeling and simulation 13 (Langton, 1989), known as ALife (see Macal (2009) for a review of the influences of investigations into artificial life on the development of agent- based modeling and the article by Heath and Hill in this issue for a review of other early influences). Complex systems consist of interacting, autonomous components; complex adaptive systems have the additional capability for agents to adapt at the individual or population levels. These collective investigations into complex systems sought to identify universal principles of such systems, such as the basis for self-organization, emergent phenomenon, and the origins of adaptation in nature. ABMS began largely as the set of ideas, techniques, and tools for implementing computational models of complex adaptive systems. Many of the early agent-based models were developed using the Swarm modeling software designed by Langton and others to model ALife (Minar et al, 1996). Initially, agent behaviours were modeled using exceedingly simple rules that still led to exceedingly complex emergent behaviours. In the past 10 years or so, available agent-based modeling software tools and development environments have expanded considerably in both numbers and capabilities. Following the conventional definition of simulation, we use the term ABMS in this article to refer to both agent-based simulation, in which a dynamic and time-dependent process is modeled, and more general kinds of agent-based modeling that includes models designed to do optimization (see, eg, Olariu and Zomaya, 2006) or search (see, eg, Hill et al, 2006). For example, particle swarm optimization and ant optimization algorithms are both inspired by agent-based modeling approaches and are used to achieve an end (optimal) state rather than to investigate a dynamic process, as in a simulation. 2.2 Structure of an agent-based model A typical agent-based model has three elements: 1. A set of agents, their attributes and behaviours. 2. A set of agent relationships and methods of interaction: An underlying topology of connectedness defines how and with whom agents interact. 3. Theagents’environment:Agentsinteractwiththeirenvironmentinaddition to other agents. A model developer must identify, model, and program these elements to create an agent-based model. The structure of a typical agent-based model is shown in Figure 2.1. Each of the components in Figure 2.1 is discussed in this section. A computational engine for simulating agent behaviours and agent interac- tions is then needed to make 