the option to halve exposure to firms in which the PPD exceeds the PPD limit of 0.10 (Option 2) 200 10.7 Expected credit loss (percentage) when the banker take no actions of firms in which the PPD exceeds the PPD limit of 0.10 (Option 1) 200 10.8 Simulation results from all three post-credit decision action options; mean of expected credit losses as a percentage of the total borrowing at different limits for PPD limits 201 10.9 Credit losses (percentage) of the Bank and other banks in the Swedish market (1998–2010) 203 11.1 Single Fire system. The figure portrays the deployment of a theoretical battalion in three ranks, and the arrow points towards the enemy. The number on the right is the order of fire (in this case, every soldier fires at the same time) 210 11.2 Fire by Ranks, following the legend of Figure 11.1 The number is the order of fire, and in this case the last rank fires first, followed by the middle rank and then the rank closest to the enemy 211 11.3 Platoon Fire. As stated before, the number shows the order of execution. The ranks are divided into four groups, depicted in the figure by different patterns. In theory, all the soldiers in a group should fire at the same time. As we can see, most soldiers in the first rank are left in reserve as part of the fourth group 211 11.4 This diagram portrays the Catalan system, as defined in Ferrer’s drilling manual. The ranks are divided into 16 sections, paired from the flanks of the formation to the centre 212 11.5 Result of executing the ABM for 200 time steps (100s). After three volleys, the northern battle line begins to panic, breaking the formation in the zone that received maximum stress (in this case the centre). The agent’s colour shows its level of stress (the lower values are white; the higher ones red) 219 11.6 Formation efficiency in relation to soldier performance. The entire set of results is portrayed using three axes: the X axis defines the accuracy of the Red side (1–25%); the Z axis defines the cohesion rating (10–100%) and the Y axis the number of victories of the Red side over the Blue side 222 x List of Figures and Tables 11.7 Box plots of soldiers remaining at the end of the simulation in relation to Red accuracy. The X axis shows the accuracy of the Red side, while the Y axis is defined as the number of soldiers who were not wounded and did not panic by the end of the simulation (Blue side in the top figure, Red side in the bottom figure). Each set of parameters was executed 10 times, and the boxes depict the standard deviation for these runs. The Blue side’s accuracy was 5%, and the cohesion rating was fixed at 50% for both sides 223 11.8 Box plots of remaining soldiers at the end of the simulation in relation to the Red cohesion rating. The X axis shows the cohesion of the Red side, while the Y axis is defined as the number of soldiers who did not panic and were not wounded by the end of the simulation (Blue side in the top figure, Red side in the bottom). Each set of parameters was executed 10 times, and the boxes depict the standard deviation for these runs. The Blue side cohesion rating was 50%, and the accuracy was fixed at 5% for both sides 224 12.1 An illustrative example for a test scenario. As represented in the figure, the basic ingredients for test scenarios are: the tester agent, fake agents, the basic elements of agent-based simulation models (agents, simulated environment and simulation environments) and the data they use/produce. The Tester Agent is able to collect information from all these elements. A test scenario is executed by a scenario executor that is not shown in this figure 240 12.2 The architectural UML model for the generic testing framework 242 12.3 The UML class model for the repast implementation of the generic testing framework 245 12.4 The UML class model for the MASON implementation of the generic testing framework. For model instrumentation, the Observer design pattern (Larman, 2004) is used. In this sense, all observable (testable) elements are registered to TesterAgent by MasonScenarioBuilder 246 12.5 Tonic firing of a neuron. During tonic firing, a neuron’s membrane potential continuously rises to the firing threshold and makes the neuron fire spontaneous spikes. The time interval between consecutive spikes are called inter-spike intervals (ISI) 249 12.6 An example peristimulus frequencygram (PSF diagram) for the soleus muscle single motor unit pathway. The frequency values before the stimulation (time 0) show the normal behaviour of the motor unit. However, there are significant changes after the stimulation 250 12.7 An illustrative diagram for the ‘tonic firing of a motoneuron’ micro-level testing scenario. In this scenario, there is a motoneuron (MN) that fires constantly by using the reference data R. MN is connected to a fake neuron (FN) through a synaptic link. During the test, the Tester agent both monitors the firing behaviours of MN and FN. Then using the monitored data, the Tester 