NAL DISEASES ATTENDED WITH LESIONS IN THE BONES

These include rickets, scurvy-rickets, osteomalacia, ostitis deformans,
osteomyelitis fibrosa, fragilitas ossium, and diseases of the nervous
system.


RICKETS

Rickets or rachitis is a constitutional disease associated with
disturbance of nutrition, and attended with changes in the skeleton.
The disease is most common and most severe among the children of the
poorer classes in large cities, who are improperly fed and are brought
up in unhealthy surroundings. There is evidence that the most important
factors in the causation of rickets are ill-health of the mother during
pregnancy, and the administration to the child after its birth of food
which is defective in animal fat, proteids, and salts of lime, or which
contains these in such a form that they are not readily assimilated. The
occurrence of the disease is favoured, and its features are aggravated,
by imperfect oxygenation of the blood as the result of a deficiency of
fresh air and sunlight, want of exercise, and by other conditions which
prevail in the slums of large towns.

_Pathological Anatomy._--The most striking feature is the softness
(malacia) of the bones, due to excessive absorption of osseous tissue,
and the formation of an imperfectly calcified tissue at the sites of
ossification. The affected bones lose their rigidity, so that they are
bent under the weight of the body, by the traction of muscles, and by
other mechanical forces.

The _periosteum_ is thick and vascular, and when detached carries with
it plates and spicules of soft porous bone. The new bone may be so
abundant that it forms a thick crust on the surface, and in the flat
bones of the skull this may be heaped up in the form of bosses or ridges
resembling those ascribed to inherited syphilis.

In the epiphysial cartilages and at the ossifying junctions, all the
processes concerned in ossification, excepting the deposition of lime
salts, occur to an exaggerated degree. The cartilage of the epiphysial
disc proliferates actively and irregularly, so that it becomes softer,
thicker, and wider, and gives rise to a visible swelling, best seen at
the lower end of the radius and lower end of the tibia, and at the
costo-chondral junctions where the series of beaded swellings is known
as the "rickety rosary."

The ossifying zone is increased in depth; the marrow is abnormally
vascular; and the new bone that is formed is imperfectly calcified. The
result is that the bones may never attain their normal length, and they
remain stunted throughout life as in rickety dwarfs (Fig. 133), or the
shafts may grow unequally and come to deviate from their normal axes as
in knock-knee and bow-knee.

[Illustration: FIG. 133.--Skeleton of Rickety Dwarf, known as
"Bowed Joseph," leader of the Meal Riots in Edinburgh, who died in 1780.

(Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)]

These changes are well brought out in skiagrams; instead of the
well-defined narrow line which represents the epiphysial cartilage,
there is an ill-defined, blurred zone of considerable depth.

In the shafts of the long bones, owing to the excessive absorption of
bone, the cortex becomes porous, the spongy bone is rarefied, and the
bones readily bend or break under mechanical influences. When the
disease is arrested, a process of repair sets in which often results in
the bones becoming denser and heavier than normal. In the flat bones of
the skull, the absorption may result in the entire disappearance of
areas of bone, leaving a membrane which dimples like thin cardboard
under the pressure of the finger--a condition known as _craniotabes_.

_Changes in the Skeleton before the Child is able to walk._--The
fontanelles remain open until the end of the second year or longer, and
the frontal and parietal eminences are unduly prominent. There is
sometimes hydrocephalus, and the head is characteristically enlarged.
The jaws are altered so that while the upper jaw is contracted into the
shape of a #V#, the lower jaw is square instead of rounded in outline,
and the teeth do not oppose one another. In the _thorax_, the chief
feature may be the beading at the costo-chondral junctions, principally
of the fifth and sixth ribs or its walls may be contracted,
particularly if respiration is interfered with as a result of bronchial
catarrh or adenoids. The contraction may take the form of a vertical
groove on each side, or of a horizontal groove at the level of the upper
end of the xiphi-sternum; when the sternum and cartilages form a
projection in front, the deformity is known as "pigeon-breast."

The _spine_ may be curved backwards--_kyphosis_--throughout its
whole extent or only in one part; or it may be curved to one
side--_scoliosis_.

In the _limbs_, the prominent features are the deficient growth in
length of the long bones, the enlargements at the epiphysial junctions,
and the bending, and occasional greenstick fracture, of the shafts. The
degree of enlargement of the epiphysial junctions 