sses of fibrin, sometimes resembling rice
grains, melon seeds, or adhesive wafers, sometimes quite irregular in
shape. Usually they are present in large numbers, but sometimes there is
only one, and it may attain considerable dimensions. They are not
peculiar to joints, for they are met with in tendon sheaths and bursae,
and their origin from synovial membrane may be accepted as proved. They
occur in tuberculosis, arthritis deformans, and in Charcot's disease,
and their presence is almost invariably associated with an effusion of
fluid into the joint. While they may result from the coagulation of
fibrin-forming elements in the exudate, their occurrence in tuberculous
hydrops would appear to be the result of coagulation necrosis, or of
fibrinous degeneration of the surface layer of the diseased synovial
membrane. However formed, their shape is the result of mechanical
influences, and especially of the movement of the joint.

_Clinically_, loose bodies composed of fibrin constitute an unimportant
addition to the features of the disease with which they are associated.
They never give rise to the classical symptoms associated with impaction
of a loose body between the articular surfaces. Their presence may be
recognised, especially in the knee, by the crepitating sensation
imparted to the fingers of the hand grasping the joint while it is
flexed and extended by the patient.

The _treatment_ is directed towards the disease underlying the hydrops.
If it is desired to empty the joint, this is best done by open
incision.

[Illustration: FIG. 166.--Radiogram of Multiple Loose Bodies in
Knee-joint and Semi-membranosus Bursa in a man aet. 38.

(Mr. J. W. Dowden's case.)]

#Bodies composed of Organised Connective Tissue.#--These are
comparatively common in joints that are already the seat of some chronic
disease, such as arthritis deformans, Charcot's arthropathy, or synovial
tuberculosis. They take origin almost exclusively from an erratic
overgrowth of the fringes of the synovial membrane, and may consist
entirely of fat, the arborescent lipoma (Fig. 159) being the most
pronounced example of this variety. Fibrous tissue or cartilage may
form in one or more of the fatty fringes and give rise to hard nodular
masses, which may attain a considerable size, and in course of time may
undergo ossification.

Like other hypertrophies on a free surface, they tend to become
pedunculated, and so acquire a limited range of movement. The pedicle
may give way and the body become free. In this condition it may wander
about the joint, or lie snugly in one of its recesses until disturbed by
some sudden movement. A loose body free in a joint is capable of growth,
deriving the necessary nutriment from the surrounding fluid. The size
and number of the bodies vary widely. Single specimens have been known
to attain the size of the patella. The smaller varieties may number
considerably over a hundred.

[Illustration: FIG. 167.--Loose Body from Knee-joint of man aet. 25.
Natural size.

a = Convex surface.   b = Concave surface.]

In arthritis deformans a rarer type of loose body is met with, a portion
of the lipping of one of the articular margins being detached by injury.
In Charcot's disease, bodies composed of bone are formed in relation to
the capsular and other ligaments, and may be made to grate upon one
another.

The _clinical features_ in this group are mainly those of the disease
which has given rise to the loose bodies, and it is exceptional to meet
with symptoms from impaction of the body between the articular surfaces.
Treatment is to be directed towards the primary disease in the joint, as
well as to the removal of the loose bodies.

[Illustration: FIG. 168.--Multiple partially ossified Chondromas of
Synovial Membrane, from Shoulder-joint, the seat of arthritis deformans,
from a man aet. 35.]

_Loose Bodies in Joints which are otherwise healthy._--It is in joints
otherwise healthy that loose bodies causing the classical symptoms and
calling for operative treatment are most frequently met with. They occur
chiefly in the knee and elbow of healthy males under the age of thirty.
The complaint may be of vague pains, of occasional cracking on moving
the joint, or of impairment of function--usually an inability to extend
or flex the joint completely. In many cases a clear account is given of
the symptoms which arise when the body is impacted between the articular
surfaces, namely, sudden onset of intense sickening pain, loss of power
in the limb and locking of the joint, followed by effusion and other
accompaniments of a severe sprain. On some particular movement, the
body is disengaged, the locking disappears, and recovery takes place.
Attacks of this kind may recur at irregular intervals, during a period
of many years. On examining the joint, it is usually found to contain
fluid, and there may be points of special tenderness corresponding to
the ligaments that have been overstretched. In cases in which there has
been recurrent attacks