ods. The onset of natural cure is recognised by the tumour
becoming firmer and less compressible, and, in the mixed variety, by the
colour becoming less bright. Injury, infection, or ulceration of the
overlying skin may initiate the curative process.

Towards adult life the spaces in a subcutaneous naevus may become greatly
enlarged, leading to the formation of a cavernous angioma.

_Treatment._--In view of the frequency with which subcutaneous and mixed
naevi disappear spontaneously, interference is only called for when the
growth of the tumour is out of proportion to that of the child, or when,
from its situation--for example in the vicinity of the eye--any marked
increase in its size would render it less amenable to treatment.

The methods of treatment most generally applicable are the use of radium
and carbon dioxide snow, igni-puncture, electrolysis, and excision.

For naevi situated on exposed parts, where it is desirable to avoid a
scar, the use of _radium_ is to be preferred. The tube of radium is
applied at intervals to different parts of the naevus, the duration and
frequency of the applications varying with the strength of the
emanations and the reaction produced. The object aimed at is to induce
obliteration of the naevoid tissue by cicatricial contraction without
destroying the overlying skin. _Carbon-dioxide snow_ may be employed in
the same manner, but the results are inferior to those obtained by
radium.

_Igni-puncture_ consists in making a number of punctures at different
parts of the naevus with a fine-pointed thermo-cautery, with the object
of starting at each point a process of cicatrisation which extends
throughout the naevoid tissue and so obliterates the vessels.

_Electrolysis_ acts by decomposing the blood and tissues into their
constituent elements--oxygen and acids appearing at the positive,
hydrogen and bases at the negative electrode. These substances and gases
being given off in a nascent condition, at once enter into new
combinations with anything in the vicinity with which they have a
chemical affinity. In the naevus the practical result of this reaction is
that at the positive pole nitric acid, and at the negative pole caustic
potash, both in a state of minute subdivision, make their appearance.
The effect on the tissues around the positive pole, therefore, is
equivalent to that of an acid cauterisation, and on those round the
negative pole, to an alkaline cauterisation.

As the process is painful, a general anaesthetic is necessary. The
current used should be from 20 to 80 milliamperes, gradually increasing
from zero, without shock; three to six large Bunsen cells give a
sufficient current, and no galvanometer is required. Steel needles,
insulated with vulcanite to within an eighth of an inch of their points,
are the best. Both poles are introduced into the naevus, the positive
being kept fixed at one spot, while the negative is moved about so as to
produce a number of different tracks of cauterisation. On no account
must either pole be allowed to come in contact with the skin, lest a
slough be formed. The duration of the sitting is determined by the
effect produced, as indicated by the hardening of the tumour, the
average duration being from fifteen to twenty minutes. If pallor of the
skin appears, it indicates that the needles are too near the surface, or
that the blood supply to the integument is being cut off, and is an
indication to stop. To cauterise the track and so prevent bleeding, the
needles should be slowly withdrawn while the current is flowing. When
the skin is reached the current is turned off. The punctures are covered
with collodion. Six or eight weeks should be allowed to elapse before
repeating the procedure. From two to eight or ten sittings may be
necessary, according to the size and character of the naevus.

_Excision_ is to be preferred for naevi of moderate size situated on
covered parts of the body, where a scar is of no importance. Its chief
advantages over electrolysis are that a single operation is sufficient,
and that the cure is speedy and certain. The operation is attended with
much less haemorrhage than might be expected.

#Cavernous Angioma.#--This form of angioma consists of a series of large
blood spaces which are usually derived from the dilatation of the
capillaries of a subcutaneous naevus. The spaces come to communicate
freely with one another by the disappearance of adjacent capillary
walls. While the most common situation is in the subcutaneous tissue, a
cavernous angioma is sometimes met with in internal organs. It may
appear at any age from early youth to middle life, and is of slow growth
and may become stationary. The swelling is rounded or oval, there is no
pulsation or bruit, and the tumour is but slightly compressible. The
treatment consists in dissecting it out.

#Aneurysm by Anastomosis# is the name applied to a vascular tumour in
which the arteries, veins, and capillaries are all involved. It is met
with chiefly on the upp