p-seated pains. In
superficial bones, such as the tibia, there is enlargement, and it may
be possible to recognise egg-shell crackling, or unequal consistence of
the bone, which is hard in some parts, and doughy and elastic in others.
The disease may pursue an indolent course during months or years until
some complication occurs, such as suppuration or fracture. With the
occurrence of suppuration the disease becomes more active, and abscesses
may form in the soft parts and in the adjacent joint. In the vertebral
column, hydatids give rise to angular deformity and paraplegia. In the
pelvis, there is usually great enlargement of the bones, and when
suppuration occurs it is apt to infect the hip-joint and to terminate
fatally.

Examination with the X-rays shows the characteristic excavations of the
bone caused by the cysts. The disease is liable to be mistaken for
central tumour, gumma, tuberculosis, or abscess of bone.

The _treatment_ consists in thorough eradication of the parasite by
operation. The bone is laid open and scraped or resected according to
the extent of the disease, and the raw surfaces swabbed with 1 per cent.
formalin. In advanced cases complicated with spontaneous fracture or
with suppuration, amputation affords the best chance of recovery.

The lesions in the bones resulting from _actinomycosis_ and from
_mycetoma_, have been described with these diseases.


CONSTITUTIONAL DISEASES ATTENDED WITH LESIONS IN THE BONES

These include rickets, scurvy-rickets, osteomalacia, ostitis deformans,
osteomyelitis fibrosa, fragilitas ossium, and diseases of the nervous
system.


RICKETS

Rickets or rachitis is a constitutional disease associated with
disturbance of nutrition, and attended with changes in the skeleton.
The disease is most common and most severe among the children of the
poorer classes in large cities, who are improperly fed and are brought
up in unhealthy surroundings. There is evidence that the most important
factors in the causation of rickets are ill-health of the mother during
pregnancy, and the administration to the child after its birth of food
which is defective in animal fat, proteids, and salts of lime, or which
contains these in such a form that they are not readily assimilated. The
occurrence of the disease is favoured, and its features are aggravated,
by imperfect oxygenation of the blood as the result of a deficiency of
fresh air and sunlight, want of exercise, and by other conditions which
prevail in the slums of large towns.

_Pathological Anatomy._--The most striking feature is the softness
(malacia) of the bones, due to excessive absorption of osseous tissue,
and the formation of an imperfectly calcified tissue at the sites of
ossification. The affected bones lose their rigidity, so that they are
bent under the weight of the body, by the traction of muscles, and by
other mechanical forces.

The _periosteum_ is thick and vascular, and when detached carries with
it plates and spicules of soft porous bone. The new bone may be so
abundant that it forms a thick crust on the surface, and in the flat
bones of the skull this may be heaped up in the form of bosses or ridges
resembling those ascribed to inherited syphilis.

In the epiphysial cartilages and at the ossifying junctions, all the
processes concerned in ossification, excepting the deposition of lime
salts, occur to an exaggerated degree. The cartilage of the epiphysial
disc proliferates actively and irregularly, so that it becomes softer,
thicker, and wider, and gives rise to a visible swelling, best seen at
the lower end of the radius and lower end of the tibia, and at the
costo-chondral junctions where the series of beaded swellings is known
as the "rickety rosary."

The ossifying zone is increased in depth; the marrow is abnormally
vascular; and the new bone that is formed is imperfectly calcified. The
result is that the bones may never attain their normal length, and they
remain stunted throughout life as in rickety dwarfs (Fig. 133), or the
shafts may grow unequally and come to deviate from their normal axes as
in knock-knee and bow-knee.

[Illustration: FIG. 133.--Skeleton of Rickety Dwarf, known as
"Bowed Joseph," leader of the Meal Riots in Edinburgh, who died in 1780.

(Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)]

These changes are well brought out in skiagrams; instead of the
well-defined narrow line which represents the epiphysial cartilage,
there is an ill-defined, blurred zone of considerable depth.

In the shafts of the long bones, owing to the excessive absorption of
bone, the cortex becomes porous, the spongy bone is rarefied, and the
bones readily bend or break under mechanical influences. When the
disease is arrested, a process of repair sets in which often results in
the bones becoming denser and heavier than normal. In the flat bones of
the skull, the absorption may result in the entire disappearance of
areas of bone, leaving a membrane which dimples like thin cardboard
under the pressure of the f