taneous covering of the back occurs most
frequently over the lower sacral vertebrae, giving rise to small
congenital recesses, known as post-anal dimples and coccygeal sinuses.
These recesses are lined with skin, which is furnished with hairs,
sebaceous and sweat glands. If the external orifice becomes occluded,
there results a dermoid cyst.

_Tubulo-dermoids_ arise from embryonic ducts and passages that are
normally obliterated at birth, for example, _lingual dermoids_ develop
in relation to the thyreo-glossal duct; _rectal and post-rectal_
dermoids to the post-anal gut; and _branchial dermoids_ in relation to
the branchial clefts. Tubulo-dermoids present the same structure as skin
dermoids, save that mucous membrane takes the place of skin in the wall
of the cyst, and the contents consist of the pent-up secretion of mucous
glands.

_Clinical Features._--Although dermoids are of congenital origin, they
are rarely evident at birth, and may not give rise to visible tumours
until puberty, when the skin and its appendages become more active, or
not till adult life. Superficial dermoids, such as those met with at the
outer angle of the orbit, form rounded, definitely limited tumours over
which the skin is freely movable. They are usually adherent to the
deeper parts, and when situated over the skull may be lodged in a
depression or actual gap in the bone. Sometimes the cyst becomes
infected and suppurates, and finally ruptures on the surface. This may
lead to a natural cure, or a persistent sinus may form. Dermoids more
deeply placed, such as those within the thorax, or those situated
between the rectum and sacrum, give rise to difficulty in diagnosis,
even with the help of the X-rays, and their nature is seldom recognised
until the escape of the contents--particularly hairs--supplies the clue.
The literature of dermoid cysts is full of accounts of puzzling tumours
met with in all sorts of situations.

The treatment is to remove the cyst. When it is impossible to remove the
whole of the lining membrane by dissection, the portion that is left
should be destroyed with the cautery.

_Ovarian Dermoids._--Dermoids are not uncommon in the ovary (Fig. 59).
They usually take the form of unilocular or multilocular cysts, the
wall of which contains skin, mucous membrane, hair follicles, sebaceous,
sweat, and mucous glands, nails, teeth, nipples, and mammary glands. The
cavity of the cyst usually contains a pultaceous mixture of shed
epithelium, fluid fat, and hair. If the cyst ruptures, the epithelial
elements are diffused over the peritoneum, and may give rise to
secondary dermoids.

[Illustration: FIG. 59.--Dermoid Cyst of Ovary showing Teeth in its
interior.]

The ovarian dermoid appears clinically as an abdominal or pelvic tumour
provided with a pedicle; if the pedicle becomes twisted, the tumour
undergoes strangulation, an event which is attended with urgent
symptoms, not unlike those of strangulated hernia.

The treatment consists in removing the tumour by laparotomy.

#Teratoma.#--A teratoma is believed to result from partial dichotomy or
cleavage of the trunk axis of the embryo, and is found exclusively in
connection with the skull and vertebral column. It may take the form of
a monstrosity such as conjoined twins or a parasitic foetus, but more
commonly it is met with as an irregularly shaped tumour, usually growing
from the sacrum. On dissection, such a tumour is found to contain a
curious mixture of tissues--bones, skin, and portions of viscera, such
as the intestine or liver. The question of the removal of the tumour
requires to be considered in relation to the conditions present in each
individual case.


CYSTS[3]

[3] Cysts which form in relation to new-growths have been considered
with tumours.

Cysts are rounded sacs, the wall being composed of fibrous tissue lined
by epithelium or endothelium; the contents are fluid or semi-solid, and
vary in character according to the tissue in which the cyst has
originated.

_Retention and Exudation Cysts._--_Retention cysts_ develop when the
duct of a secreting gland is partly obstructed; the secretion
accumulates, and the gland and its duct become distended into a cyst.
They are met with in the mamma and in the salivary glands. Sebaceous
cysts or wens are described with diseases of the skin. _Exudation cysts_
arise from the distension of cavities which are not provided with
excretory ducts, such as those in the thyreoid.

_Implantation cysts_ are caused by the accidental transference of
portions of the epidermis into the underlying connective tissue, as may
occur in wounds by needles, awls, forks, or thorns. The implanted
epidermis proliferates and forms a small cyst. They are met with chiefly
on the palmar aspect of the fingers, and vary in size from a split pea
to a cherry. The treatment consists in removing them by dissection.

_Parasitic cysts_ are produced by the growth within the tissues of
cyst-forming parasites, the best known being the taenia echinococcus,
w