sting of the muscles,
especially the extensors, in the vicinity of the joint is a constant
accompaniment of arthritis. On account of the involvement of the
articular surfaces, arthritis is apt to be followed by ankylosis.

The term _empyema_ is sometimes employed to indicate that the cavity of
the joint contains pus. This is observed chiefly in chronic disease of
pyogenic or tuberculous origin, and is usually attended with the
formation of abscesses outside the joint.

_Ulceration of cartilage_ and _caries of the articular surfaces_ are
common accompaniments of the more serious and progressive forms of joint
disease, especially those of bacterial origin. The destruction of
cartilage may be secondary to disease of the synovial membrane or of the
subjacent bone. When the disease begins as a synovitis, the synovial
membrane spreads over the articular surface, fuses with the cartilage
and eats into it, causing defects or holes which are spoken of as
ulcers. When the disease begins in the bone, the marrow is converted
into granulation tissue, which eats into the cartilage and separates it
from the bone. Following on the destruction of the cartilage, the
articular surface of the bone undergoes disintegration, a condition
spoken of as _caries of the articular surface_. The occurrence of
ulceration of cartilage and of articular caries is attended with the
clinical signs of fixation of the joint from involuntary muscular
contraction, wasting of muscles, and starting pains. These _starting
pains_ are the result of sudden involuntary movements of the joint. They
occur most frequently as the patient is dropping off to sleep; the
muscles becoming relaxed, the sensitive ulcerated surfaces jar on one
another, which causes sudden reflex contraction of the muscles, and the
resulting movement being attended with severe pain, wakens the patient
with a start. Advanced articular caries is usually associated with some
abnormal attitude and with shortening of the limb. It may be possible to
feel the bony surfaces grate upon one another. When all its constituent
elements are damaged or destroyed, a joint is said to be _disorganised_.
Should recovery take place, repair is usually attended with union of the
opposing articular surfaces either by fibrous tissue or by bone.

#Conditions of Impaired Mobility of Joints.#--There are four conditions
of impaired mobility in joints: rigidity, contracture, ankylosis, and
locking. _Rigidity_ is the fixation of a joint by involuntary
contraction of muscles, and is of value as a sign of disease in
deep-seated joints, such as the hip. It disappears under anaesthesia.

_Contracture_ is the term applied when the fixation is due to permanent
shortening of the soft parts around a joint--muscles, tendons,
ligaments, fasciae, or skin. As the structures on the flexor aspect are
more liable to undergo such shortening, contracture is nearly always
associated with flexion. Contracture may result from disease of the
joint, or from conditions outside it--for example, disease in one of
the adjacent bones, or lesions of the nerves.

_Ankylosis_ is the term applied when impaired mobility results from
changes involving the articular surfaces. It is frequently combined with
contracture. Three anatomical varieties of ankylosis are
recognised--(a) The _fibrous_, in which there are adhesions between
the opposing surfaces, which may be in the form of loose isolated bands
of fibrous tissue, or may bind the bones so closely together as to
obliterate the cavity of the joint. The resulting stiffness, therefore,
varies from a mere restriction of the normal range of movement, up to a
close union of the bones which prevents movement. Fibrous ankylosis may
follow upon injury, especially dislocation or fracture implicating a
joint, or it may result from any form of arthritis. (b) _Cartilaginous
ankylosis_ implies the fusion of two apposed cartilaginous surfaces. It
is often found between the patella and the trochlear surface of the
femur in tuberculous disease of the knee. The fusion of the
cartilaginous surfaces is preceded by the spreading of a vascular
connective tissue, derived from the synovial membrane, over the
articular cartilage. Clinically, it is associated with absolute
immobility, (c) _Bony ankylosis_ or _synostosis_ is an osseous union
between articulating surfaces (Figs. 154 and 155). It may follow upon
fibrous or cartilaginous ankylosis, or may result from the fusion of two
articular surfaces which have lost their cartilage and become covered
with granulations. In the majority of cases it is to be regarded as a
reparative process, presenting analogies with the union of fracture.

[Illustration: FIG. 154.--Osseous Ankylosis of Femur and Tibia in
position of flexion.]

The term _arthritis ossificans_ has been applied by Joseph Griffiths to
a condition in which the articular surfaces become fused without evident
cause.

The occurrence of ankylosis in a joint before the skeleton has attained
maturity does not appea