pigmented, and usually hairy,
patch of skin, present at or appearing shortly after birth. The colour
varies from brown to black, according to the amount of melanin pigment
present. The lesion consists in an overgrowth of epidermis which often
presents an alveolar arrangement. Moles vary greatly in size: some are
mere dots, others are as large as the palm of the hand, and occasionally
a mole covers half the face. In addition to being unsightly, they bleed
freely when abraded, are liable to ulcerate from friction and pressure,
and occasionally become the starting-point of melanotic cancer. Rodent
cancer sometimes originates in the slightly pigmented moles met with on
the face. Overgrowths in relation to the cutaneous nerves, especially
the plexiform neuroma, occasionally originate in pigmented moles. Soldau
believes that the pigmentation and overgrowth of the epidermis in moles
are associated with, and probably result from, a fibromatosis of the
cutaneous nerves.

_Treatment._--The quickest way to get rid of a mole is to excise it; if
the edges of the gap cannot be brought together with sutures, recourse
should be had to grafting. In large hairy moles of the face whose size
forbids excision, radium or the X-rays should be employed. Excellent
results have been obtained by refrigeration with solid carbon dioxide.
In children and women with delicate skin, applications of from ten to
thirty seconds suffice. In persons with coarse skin an application of
one minute may be necessary, and it may have to be repeated.

#Horns.#--The _sebaceous_ horn results from the accumulation of the
dried contents of a wen on the surface of the skin: the sebaceous
material after drying up becomes cornified, and as fresh material is
added to the base the horn increases in length (Fig. 100). The _wart_
horn grows from a warty papilloma of the skin. _Cicatrix_ horns are
formed by the heaping up of epidermis in the scars that result from
burns. _Nail_ horns are overgrown nails (keratomata of the nail bed),
and are met with chiefly in the great toe of elderly bedridden patients.
If an ulcer forms at the base of a horn, it may prove the starting-point
of epithelioma, and for this reason, as well as for others, horns should
be removed.

[Illustration: FIG. 100.--Sebaceous Horn growing from Auricle.

(Dr. Kenneth Maclachan's case.)]

#New Growths in the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue.#--The _Angioma_ has
been described with diseases of blood vessels. _Fibroma._--Various types
of fibroma occur in the skin. A soft pedunculated fibroma, about the
size of a pea, is commonly met with, especially on the neck and trunk;
it is usually solitary, and is easily removed with scissors. The
multiple, soft fibroma known as _molluscum fibrosum_, which depends upon
a neuro-fibromatosis of the cutaneous nerves, is described with the
tumours of nerves. Hard fibromas occurring singly or in groups may be
met with, especially in the skin of the buttock, and may present a local
malignancy, recurring after removal like the "recurrent fibroid" of
Paget. The "painful subcutaneous nodule" is a solitary fibroma related
to one of the cutaneous nerves. The hard fibroma known as _keloid_ is
described with the affections of scars.

#Papilloma.#--The _common wart_ or verruca is an outgrowth of the
surface epidermis. It may be sessile or pedunculated hard or soft. The
surface may be smooth, or fissured and foliated like a cauliflower, or
it may be divided up into a number of spines. Warts are met with chiefly
on the hands, and are often multiple, occurring in clusters or in
successive crops. Multiple warts appear to result from some contagion,
the nature of which is unknown; they sometimes occur in an epidemic form
among school-children, and show a remarkable tendency to disappear
spontaneously. The solitary flat-topped wart which occurs on the face
of old people may, if irritated, become the seat of epithelioma. A warty
growth of the epidermis is a frequent accompaniment of moles and of that
variety of lupus known as _lupus verrucosus_.

_Treatment._--In the multiple warts of children the health should be
braced up by a change to the seaside. A dusting-powder, consisting of
boracic acid with 5 per cent. salicylic acid, may be rubbed into the
hands after washing and drying. The persistent warts of young adults
should be excised after freezing with chloride of ethyl. When cutting is
objected to, they may be painted night and morning with salicylic
collodion, the epidermis being dehydrated with alcohol before each
application.

_Venereal warts_ occur on the genitals of either sex, and may form large
cauliflower-like masses on the inner surface of the prepuce or of the
labia majora. Although frequently co-existing with gonorrhoea or
syphilis, they occur independently of these diseases, being probably
acquired by contact with another individual suffering from warts
(C. W. Cathcart). They give rise to considerable irritation and
suffering, and when cleanliness is neglected there m