 must be taken
not to cut or divide any vein before it has been secured by forceps, and
to apply ligatures securely and at once. Deep wounds in this region
should be kept filled with normal salt solution. Immediately a cut is
recognised in a vein, a finger should be placed over the vessel on the
cardiac side of the wound, and kept there until the opening is secured.

_Treatment._--Little can be done after the air has actually entered the
vein beyond endeavouring to maintain the heart's action by hypodermic
injections of ether or strychnin and the application of mustard or hot
cloths over the chest. The head at the same time should be lowered to
prevent syncope. Attempts to withdraw the air by suction, and the
employment of artificial respiration, have proved futile, and are, by
some, considered dangerous. In a desperate case massage of the heart
might be tried.


THE NATURAL ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE AND THE REPAIR OF BLOOD
VESSELS

#Primary Haemorrhage.#--The term primary haemorrhage is applied to the
bleeding which follows immediately on the wounding of a blood vessel.
The natural process by which such haemorrhage is arrested varies with the
character of the wound in the vessel and may be modified by accidental
circumstances.

(a) _Repair of completely divided Artery._--When an artery is
_completely_ divided, the circular fibres of the muscular coat contract,
so that the lumen of the cut ends is diminished, and at the same time
each segment retracts within its sheath in virtue of the recoil of the
elastic elements in its walls, the tunica intima curls up in the
interior of the vessel, and the tunica externa collapses over the cut
ends. The blood that escapes from the injured vessel fills the
interstices of the tissues, and, coagulating, forms a clot which
temporarily arrests the bleeding. That part of the clot which lies
between the divided ends of the vessel and in the cellular tissue
outside, is known as the _external clot_, while the portion which
projects into the lumen of the vessel is known as the _internal clot_,
and it usually extends as far as the nearest collateral branch. These
processes constitute what is known as the _temporary arrest of
haemorrhage_, which, it will be observed, is effected by the contraction
and retraction of the divided artery and by clotting.

The _permanent arrest_ takes place by the transformation of the clot
into scar tissue. The internal clot plays the most important part in the
process; it becomes invaded by leucocytes and proliferating endothelial
and connective-tissue cells, and new blood vessels permeate the mass,
which is thus converted into granulation tissue. This is ultimately
replaced by fibrous tissue, which permanently occludes the end of the
vessel. Concurrently and by the same process the external clot is
converted into scar tissue.

If a divided artery is _ligated at its cut end_, the tension of the
ligature is usually sufficient to rupture the inner and middle coats,
which curl up within the lumen, the outer coat alone being held in the
grasp of the ligature. An internal clot forms and, becoming organised,
permanently occludes the vessel as above described. The ligature and the
small portion of vessel beyond it are subsequently absorbed.

In course of time the collateral branches of the vessel above and below
the level of section enlarge and their inter-communication becomes more
free, so that even when large trunks have been divided the vascular
supply of the parts beyond may be completely restored. This is known as
the development of the _collateral circulation_.

_Imperfect Collateral Circulation._--While the development of the
collateral circulation after the ligation or obstruction from other
cause of a main arterial trunk may be sufficient to prevent gangrene of
the limb, it may be insufficient for its adequate nourishment; it may be
cold, bluish in colour, and there may be necrosis of the skin over bony
points; this is notably the case in the lower extremity after ligation
of the femoral or popliteal artery, when patches of skin may die over
the prominence of the heel, the balls of the toes, the projecting base
of the fifth metatarsal and the external malleolus.

If, during the period of reaction, the blood-pressure rises

considerably, the occluding clot at the divided end of the vessel may be
washed away or the ligature displaced, permitting of fresh bleeding
taking place--_reactionary_ or _intermediary haemorrhage_ (p. 272).

In the event of the wound becoming infected with pyogenic organisms, the
occluding blood-clot or the young fibrous tissue may become
disintegrated in the suppurative process, and the bleeding start
afresh--_secondary haemorrhage_ (p. 273).

(b) If an artery is only _partly cut across_, the divided fibres of
the tunica muscularis contract and those of the tunica externa retract,
with the result that a more or less circular hole is formed in the wall
of the vessel, from which free bleeding takes place, as the conditions
are unfa