ssel wall, are the most
important factors determining the formation of the clot. Alterations in
the blood itself, such as occur, for example, in certain toxaemias, also
favour coagulation. When the thrombus is formed slowly, it consists of
white blood cells with a small proportion of fibrin, and, being
deposited in successive layers, has a distinctly laminated appearance on
section. It is known as a _white thrombus_ or laminated clot, and is
often met with in the sac of an aneurysm (Fig. 72). When rapidly formed
in a vessel in which the blood is almost stagnant--as, for example, in a
pouched varicose vein--the blood coagulates _en masse_, and the clot
consists of all the elements of the blood, constituting a _red thrombus_
(Fig. 66). Sometimes the thrombus is _mixed_--a red thrombus being
deposited on a white one, it may be in alternate layers.

When aseptic, a thrombus may become detached and be carried off in the
blood-stream as an embolus; it may become organised; or it may
degenerate and undergo calcification. Occasionally a small thrombus
situated behind a valve in a varicose vein or in the terminal end of a
dilated vein--for example in a pile--undergoes calcification, and is
then spoken of as a _phlebolith_; it gives a shadow with the X-rays.

When infected with pyogenic bacteria, the thrombus becomes converted
into pus and a localised abscess forms; or portions of the thrombus may
be carried as emboli in the circulation to distant parts, where they
give rise to secondary foci of suppuration--pyaemic abscesses.

#Embolism.#--The term _embolus_ is applied to any body carried along in
the circulation and ultimately becoming impacted in a blood vessel. This
occurrence is known as _embolism_. The commonest forms of embolus are
portions of thrombi or of fibrinous formations on the valves of the
heart, the latter being usually infected with micro-organisms.

Embolism plays an important part in determining one form of gangrene, as
has already been described. Infective emboli are the direct cause of the
secondary abscesses that occur in pyaemia; and they are sometimes
responsible for the formation of aneurysm.

Portions of malignant tumours also may form emboli, and their impaction
in the vessels may lead to the development of secondary growths in
distant parts of the body.

Fat and air embolism have already been referred to.


ARTERITIS

_Pyogenic._--Non-suppurative inflammation of the coats of an artery may
so soften the wall of the vessel as to lead to aneurysmal dilatation. It
is not uncommon in children, and explains the occurrence of aneurysm in
young subjects.

When suppuration occurs, the vessel wall becomes disintegrated and gives
way, leading to secondary haemorrhage. If the vessel ruptures into an
abscess cavity, dangerous bleeding may occur when the abscess bursts or
is opened.

_Syphilitic._--The inflammation associated with syphilis results in
thickening of the tunica intima, whereby the lumen of the vessel becomes
narrowed, or even obliterated--_endarteritis obliterans_. The middle
coat usually escapes, but the tunica externa is generally thickened.
These changes cause serious interference with the nutrition of the parts
supplied by the affected arteries. In large trunks, by diminishing the
elasticity of the vessel wall, they are liable to lead to the formation
of aneurysm.

Changes in the arterial walls closely resembling those of syphilitic
arteritis are sometimes met with in _tuberculous_ lesions.

#Arterio-sclerosis# or #Chronic Arteritis#.--These terms are applied to
certain changes which result in narrowing of the lumen and loss of
elasticity in the arteries. The condition may affect the whole vascular
system or may be confined to particular areas. In the smaller arteries
there is more or less uniform thickening of the tunica intima from
proliferation of the endothelium and increase in the connective tissue
in the elastic lamina--a form of obliterative endarteritis. The
narrowing of the vessels may be sufficient to determine gangrene in the
extremities. In course of time, particularly in the larger arteries,
this new tissue undergoes degeneration, at first of a fatty nature, but
progressing in the direction of calcification, and this is followed by
the deposit of lime salts in the young connective tissue and the
formation of calcareous plates or rings over a considerable area of the
vessel wall. To this stage in the process the term _atheroma_ is
applied. The endothelium over these plates often disappears, leaving
them exposed to the blood-stream.

Changes of a similar kind sometimes occur in the middle coat, the lime
salts being deposited among the muscle fibres in concentric rings.

The primary cause of arterio-sclerosis is not definitely known, but its
almost constant occurrence, to a greater or less degree, in the aged
suggests that it is of the nature of a senile degeneration. It is
favoured by anything which throws excessive strain on the vessel walls,
such as heavy muscular work; b