ves in Scar Tissue._--Pressure or traction may be
exerted upon a nerve by contracting scar tissue, or a process of
neuritis or perineuritis may be induced.

When terminal filaments are involved in a scar, it is best to dissect
out the scar, and along with it the ends of the nerves pressed upon.
When a nerve-trunk, such as the sciatic, is involved in cicatricial
tissue, the nerve must be exposed and freed from its surroundings
(_neurolysis_), and then stretched so as to tear any adhesions that may
be present above or below the part exposed. It may be advisable to
displace the liberated nerve from its original position so as to
minimise the risk of its incorporation in the scar of the original wound
or in that resulting from the operation--for example, the radial nerve
may be buried in the substance of the triceps, or it may be surrounded
by a segment of vein or portion of fat-bearing fascia.

_Injuries of nerves resulting from_ #gun-shot wounds# include: (1) those
in which the nerve is directly damaged by the bullet, and (2) those in
which the nerve-trunk is involved secondarily either by scar tissue in
its vicinity or by callus following fracture of an adjacent bone. The
primary injuries include contusion, partial or complete division, and
perforation of the nerve-trunk. One of the most constant symptoms is the
early occurrence of severe neuralgic pain, and this is usually
associated with marked hyperaesthesia.

#Regeneration.#--_Process of Repair when the Ends are in Contact._--_If
the wound is aseptic_, and the ends of the divided nerve are sutured or
remain in contact, they become united, and the conducting paths are
re-established by a regeneration of nerve fibres. There is a difference
of opinion as to the method of regeneration. The Wallerian doctrine is
that the axis cylinders in the central end grow downwards, and enter the
nerve sheaths of the distal portion, and continue growing until they
reach the peripheral terminations in muscle and skin, and in course of
time acquire a myelin sheath; the cells of the neurolemma multiply and
form long chains in both ends of the nerve, and are believed to provide
for the nourishment and support of the actively lengthening axis
cylinders. Another view is that the formation of new axis cylinders is
not confined to the central end, but that it goes on also in the
peripheral segment, in which, however, the new axis cylinders do not
attain maturity until continuity with the central end has been
re-established.

_If the wound becomes infected_ and suppuration occurs, the young nerve
fibres are destroyed and efficient regeneration is prevented; the
formation of scar tissue also may constitute a permanent obstacle to new
nerve fibres bridging the gap.

_When the ends are not in contact_, reunion of the divided nerve fibres
does not take place whether the wound is infected or not. At the
proximal end there forms a bulbous swelling, which becomes adherent to
the scar tissue. It consists of branching axis cylinders running in all
directions, these having failed to reach the distal end because of the
extent of the gap. The peripheral end is completely degenerated, and is
represented by a fibrous cord, the cut end of which is often slightly
swollen or bulbous, and is also incorporated with the scar tissue of
the wound.

#Clinical Features.#--The symptoms resulting from division and non-union
of a nerve-trunk necessarily vary with the functions of the affected
nerve. The following description refers to a mixed sensori-motor trunk,
such as the median or radial (musculo-spiral) nerve.

_Sensory Phenomena._--Superficial touch is tested by means of a wisp of
cotton wool stroked gently across the skin; the capacity of
discriminating two points as separate, by a pair of blunt-pointed
compasses; the sensation of pressure, by means of a pencil or other
blunt object; of pain, by pricking or scratching with a needle; and of
sensibility to heat and cold, by test-tubes containing water at
different temperatures. While these tests are being carried out, the
patient's eyes are screened off.

After division of a nerve containing sensory fibres, there is an area of
absolute cutaneous insensibility to touch (anaesthesia), to pain
(analgesia), and to all degrees of temperature--_loss of protopathic
sensibility_; surrounded by an area in which there is loss of sensation
to light touch, inability to recognise minor differences of temperature
(72 o-104 o F.), and to appreciate as separate impressions the contact of
the two points of a compass--_loss of epicritic sensibility_ (Head and
Sherren) (Figs. 91, 92).

_Motor Phenomena._--There is immediate and complete loss of voluntary
power in the muscles supplied by the divided nerve. The muscles rapidly
waste, and within from three to five days, they cease to react to the
faradic current. When tested with the galvanic current, it is found that
a stronger current must be used to call forth contraction than in a
healthy muscle, and the contraction app