rus. The
symptoms include perversion or loss of sensation, motor paralysis, and
atrophy of muscles, which show the reaction of degeneration from the
eighth day onwards. The presence of the reaction of degeneration
influences both the prognosis and the treatment, for it implies a lesion
which is probably incapable of spontaneous recovery, and which can only
be remedied by operation.

The _treatment_ varies with the cause and nature of the lesion. When,
for example, a displaced bone or a mass of callus is pressing upon the
nerve, steps must be taken to relieve the pressure, by operation if
necessary. When there is reason to believe that the nerve is severely
crushed or torn across, it should be exposed by incision, and, after
removal of the damaged ends, should be united by sutures. When it is
impossible to make a definite diagnosis as to the state of the nerve, it
is better to expose it by operation, and thus learn the exact state of
affairs without delay; in the event of the nerve being torn, the ends
should be united by sutures.

#Dislocation of Nerves.#--This injury, which resembles the dislocation
of tendons from their grooves, is seldom met with except in the ulnar
nerve at the elbow, and is described with injuries of that nerve.


DISEASES OF NERVES

#Traumatic Neuritis.#--This consists in an overgrowth of the
connective-tissue framework of a nerve, which causes irritation and
pressure upon the nerve fibres, sometimes resulting in their
degeneration. It may originate in connection with a wound in the
vicinity of a nerve, as, for example, when the brachial nerves are
involved in scar tissue subsequent to an operation for clearing out the
axilla for cancer; or in contusion and compression of a nerve--for
example, by the pressure of the head of the humerus in a dislocation of
the shoulder. Some weeks or months after the injury, the patient
complains of increasing hyperaesthesia and of neuralgic pains in the
course of the nerve. The nerve is very sensitive to pressure, and, if
superficial, may be felt to be swollen. The associated muscles are
wasted and weak, and are subject to twitchings. There are also trophic
disturbances. It is rare to have complete sensory and motor paralysis.
The disease is commonest in the nerves of the upper extremity, and the
hand may become crippled and useless.

_Treatment._--Any constitutional condition which predisposes to
neuritis, such as gout, diabetes, or syphilis, must receive appropriate
treatment. The symptoms may be relieved by rest and by soothing
applications, such as belladonna, ichthyol, or menthol, by the use of
hot-air and electric baths, and in obstinate cases by blistering or by
the application of Corrigan's button. When such treatment fails the
nerve may be stretched, or, in the case of a purely sensory trunk, a
portion may be excised. Local causes, such as involvement of the nerve
in a scar or in adhesions, may afford indications for operative
treatment.

#Multiple Peripheral Neuritis.#--Although this disease mainly comes
under the cognizance of the physician, it may be attended with phenomena
which call for surgical interference. In this country it is commonly due
to alcoholism, but it may result from diabetes or from chronic poisoning
with lead or arsenic, or from bacterial infections and intoxications
such as occur in diphtheria, gonorrhoea, syphilis, leprosy, typhoid,
influenza, beri-beri, and many other diseases.

It is, as a rule, widely distributed throughout the peripheral nerves,
but the distribution frequently varies with the cause--the alcoholic
form, for example, mainly affecting the legs, the diphtheritic form the
soft palate and pharynx, and that associated with lead poisoning the
forearms. The essential lesion is a degeneration of the conducting
fibres of the affected nerves, and the prominent symptoms are the result
of this. In alcoholic neuritis there is great tenderness of the muscles.
When the legs are affected the patient may be unable to walk, and the
toes may droop and the heel be drawn up, resulting in one variety of pes
equino-varus. Pressure sores and perforating ulcer of the foot are the
most important trophic phenomena.

Apart from the medical _treatment_, measures must be taken to prevent
deformity, especially when the legs are affected. The bedclothes are
supported by a cage, and the foot maintained at right angles to the leg
by sand-bags or splints. When the disease is subsiding, the nutrition of
the damaged nerves and muscles should be maintained by massage, baths,
passive movements, and the use of the galvanic current. When deformity
has been allowed to take place, operative measures may be required for
its correction.


NEUROMA[5]

[5] We have followed the classification adopted by Alexis Thomson in his
work _On Neuroma, and Neuro-fibromatosis_ (Edinburgh: 1900).

Neuroma is a clinical term applied to all tumours, irrespective of their
structure, which have their seat in nerves.

A tumour composed of newly formed nerve tissue 