erable
effusion of blood, the skin is tense, and the muscles, vessels, and
nerves are compressed; this is further increased if the elbow is flexed
and splints and tight bandages are applied. The muscles acquire a
board-like hardness and no longer contract under the will, and passive
motion is painful and restricted. Slight contracture of the fingers is
usually the first sign of the malady; in time the muscles undergo
further contraction, and this brings about a claw-like deformity of the
hand. The affected muscles usually show the reaction of degeneration. In
severe cases the median and ulnar nerves are also the seat of
cicatricial changes (ischaemic neuritis).

By means of splints, the interphalangeal, metacarpo-phalangeal, and
wrist joints should be gradually extended until the deformity is
over-corrected (R. Jones). Murphy advises resection of the radius and
ulna sufficient to admit of dorsiflexion of the joints and lengthening
of the flexor tendons.

Various forms of _pyogenic_ infection are met with in muscle, most
frequently in relation to pyaemia and to typhoid fever. These may result
in overgrowth of the connective-tissue framework of the muscle and
degeneration of its fibres, or in suppuration and the formation of one
or more abscesses in the muscle substance. Repair may be associated with
contracture.

A _gonorrhoeal_ form of myositis is sometimes met with; it is painful,
but rarely goes on to suppuration.

In the early secondary period of _syphilis_, the muscles may be the seat
of dull, aching, nocturnal pains, especially in the neck and back.
_Syphilitic contracture_ is a condition which has been observed chiefly
in the later secondary period; the biceps of the arm and the hamstrings
in the thigh are the muscles more commonly affected. The striking
feature is a gradually increasing difficulty of extending the limb at
the elbow or knee, and progressive flexion of the joint. The affected
muscle is larger and firmer than normal, and its electric excitability
is diminished. In tertiary syphilis, individual muscles may become the
seat of interstitial myositis or of gummata, and these affections
readily yield to anti-syphilitic remedies.

_Tuberculous disease_ in muscle, while usually due to extension from
adjacent tissues, is sometimes the result of a primary infection through
the blood-stream. Tuberculous nodules are found disseminated throughout
the muscle; the surrounding tissues are indurated, and central caseation
may take place and lead to abscess formation and sinuses. We have
observed this form of tuberculous disease in the gastrocnemius and in
the psoas--in the latter muscle apart from tuberculous disease in the
vertebrae.

#Tendinitis.#--German authors describe an inflammation of tendon as
distinguished from inflammation of its sheath, and give it the name
tendinitis. It is met with most frequently in the tendo-calcaneus in
gouty and rheumatic subjects who have overstrained the tendon,
especially during cold and damp weather. There is localised pain which
is aggravated by walking, and the tendon is sensitive and swollen from a
little above its insertion to its junction with the muscle. Gouty
nodules may form in its substance. Constitutional measures, massage, and
douching should be employed, and the tendon should be protected from
strain.

#Calcification and Ossification in Muscles, Tendons, and
Fasciae.#--_Myositis ossificans._--Ossifications in muscles, tendons,
fasciae, and ligaments, in those who are the subjects of arthritis
deformans, are seldom recognised clinically, but are frequently met with
in dissecting-rooms and museums. Similar localised ossifications are met
with in Charcot's disease of joints, and in fractures which have
repaired with exuberant callus. The new bone may be in the form of
spicules, plates, or irregular masses, which, when connected with a
bone, are called _false exostoses_ (Fig. 110).

[Illustration: FIG. 110.--Ossification in Tendon of Ilio-psoas Muscle.]

_Traumatic Ossification in Relation to Muscle._--Various forms of
ossification are met with in muscle as the result of a single or of
repeated injury. Ossification in the crureus or vastus lateralis muscle
has been frequently observed as a result of a kick from a horse. Within
a week or two a swelling appears at the site of injury, and becomes
progressively harder until its consistence is that of bone. If the mass
of new bone moves with the affected muscle, it causes little
inconvenience. If, as is commonly the case, it is fixed to the femur,
the action of the muscle is impaired, and the patient complains of pain
and difficulty in flexing the knee. A skiagram shows the extent of the
mass and its relationship to the femur. The treatment consists in
excising the bony mass.

Difficulty may arise in differentiating such a mass of bone from
sarcoma; the ossification in muscle is uniformly hard, while the sarcoma
varies in consistence at different parts, and the X-ray picture shows a
clear outline of the bone in 