luctuating swelling, the result of serous effusion into the sheath.
This condition may alternate with a gonorrhoeal affection of one of the
larger joints. It may subside under rest and soothing applications, but
is liable to relapse. In the more severe variety the skin is red, and
the swelling partakes of the characters of a phlegmon with threatening
suppuration; it may result in crippling from adhesions. Even if pus
forms in the sheath, the tendon rarely sloughs. The treatment consists
in inducing hyperaemia by Bier's method; and a vaccine may be employed
with satisfactory results.

#Tuberculous Disease of Tendon Sheaths.#--This is a comparatively common
affection, and is analogous to tuberculous disease of the synovial
membrane of joints. It may originate in the sheath, or may spread to it
from an adjacent bone.

The commonest form--hydrops--is that in which the synovial sheath is
distended with a viscous fluid, and the fibrinous material on the free
surface becomes detached and is moulded into melon-seed bodies by the
movement of the tendon. The sheath itself is thickened by the growth of
tuberculous granulation tissue. The bodies are smooth and of a
dull-white colour, and vary greatly in size and shape. There may be an
overgrowth of the fatty fringes of the synovial sheath, a condition
described as "arborescent lipoma."

The _clinical features_ vary with the tendon sheath affected. In the
common flexor sheath of the hand an hour-glass-shaped swelling is
formed, bulging above and below the transverse carpal (anterior annular)
ligament--formerly known as _compound palmar ganglion_. There is little
or no pain, but the fingers tend to be stiff and weak, and to become
flexed. On palpation, it is usually possible to displace the contents of
the sheath from one compartment to the other, and this may yield
fluctuation, and, what is more characteristic, a peculiar soft crepitant
sensation from the movement of the melon-seed bodies. In the sheath of
the peronei or other tendons about the ankle, the swelling is
sausage-shaped, and is constricted opposite the annular ligament.

The onset and progress of the affection are most insidious, and the
condition may remain stationary for long periods. It is aggravated by
use or strain of the tendons involved. In exceptional cases the skin is
thinned and gives way, resulting in the formation of a sinus.

_Treatment._--In the common flexor sheath of the palm, an attempt may be
made to cure the condition by removing the contents through a small
incision and filling the cavity with iodoform glycerine, followed by the
use of Bier's bandage. If this fails, the distended sheath is laid open,
the contents removed, the wall scraped, and the wound closed.

A less common form of tuberculous disease is that in which the sheath
becomes the seat of _a diffuse tuberculous thickening_, not unlike the
white swelling met with in joints, and with a similar tendency to
caseation. A painless swelling of an elastic character forms in relation
to the tendon sheath. It is hour-glass-shaped in the common flexor
sheath of the palm, elongated or sausage-shaped in the extensors of the
wrist and in the tendons at the ankle. The tuberculous granulation
tissue is liable to break down and lead to the formation of a cold
abscess and sinuses, and in our experience is often associated with
disease in an adjacent bone or joint. In the peronei tendons, for
example, it may result from disease of the fibula or of the ankle-joint.

When conservative measures fail, excision of the affected sheath should
be performed; the whole of the diseased area being exposed by free
incision of the overlying soft parts, the sheath is carefully isolated
from the surrounding tissues and is cut across above and below. Any
tuberculous tissue on the tendon itself is removed with a sharp spoon.
Associated bone or joint lesions are dealt with at the same time. In the
after-treatment the functions of the tendons must be preserved by
voluntary and passive movements.

#Syphilitic Affections of Tendon Sheaths.#--These closely resemble the
syphilitic affections of the synovial membrane of joints. During the
secondary period the lesion usually consists in effusion into the
sheath; gummata are met with during the tertiary period.

Arborescent lipoma has been found in the sheaths of tendons about the
wrist and ankle, sometimes in a multiple and symmetrical form,
unattended by symptoms and disappearing under anti-syphilitic treatment.

#Tumours of Tendon Sheaths.#--Innocent tumours, such as _lipoma_,
_fibroma_, and _myxoma_, are rare. Special mention should be made of the
_myeloma_ which is met with at the wrist or ankle as an elongated
swelling of slow development, or over the phalanx of a finger as a small
rounded swelling. The tumour tissue, when exposed by dissection, is of a
chocolate or chamois-yellow colour, and consists almost entirely of
giant cells. The treatment consists in dissecting the tumour tissue off
the tendons, and this is 