 undergoes the usual conversion into scar tissue. If the
cyst re-forms, it should be removed by open dissection under local
anaesthesia. Puncture with a tenotomy knife and scraping the interior,
and the injection of irritants, are alternative, but less satisfactory,
methods of treatment.

_Ganglia_ in the substance of _tendons_ are rare. The diagnosis rests on
the observation that the small tumour is cystic, and that it follows the
movements of the tendon. The cyst is at first multiple, but the
partitions disappear, and the spaces are thrown into one. The tendon is
so weakened that it readily ruptures. The best treatment is to resect
the affected segment of tendon.

The so-called "compound palmar ganglion" is a tuberculous disease of the
tendon sheaths, and is described with diseases of tendon sheaths.




CHAPTER XI

INJURIES


CONTUSIONS--WOUNDS: _Varieties_--WOUNDS BY FIREARMS AND
    EXPLOSIVES: _Pistol-shot wounds_; _Wounds by sporting guns_;
    _Wounds by rifle bullets_; _Wounds received in warfare_; _Shell
    wounds_. _Embedded foreign bodies_--BURNS AND
    SCALDS--INJURIES PRODUCED BY ELECTRICITY: _X-ray and
    radium_; _Electrical burns_; _Lightning stroke_.


CONTUSIONS

A contusion or bruise is a laceration of the subcutaneous soft tissues,
without solution of continuity of the skin. When the integument gives
way at the same time, a _contused-wound_ results. Bruising occurs when
force is applied to a part by means of a blunt object, whether as a
direct blow, a crush, or a grazing form of violence. If the force acts
at right angles to the part, it tends to produce localised lesions which
extend deeply; while, if it acts obliquely, it gives rise to lesions
which are more diffuse, but comparatively superficial. It is well to
remember that those who suffer from scurvy, or haemophilia (bleeders),
and fat and anaemic females, are liable to be bruised by comparatively
trivial injuries.

_Clinical Features._--The less severe forms of contusion are associated
with _ecchymosis_, numerous minute and discrete punctate haemorrhages
being scattered through the superficial layers of the skin, which is
slightly oedematous. The effused blood is soon reabsorbed.

The more severe forms are attended with _extravasation_, the
extravasated blood being widely diffused through the cellular tissue of
the part, especially where this is loose and lax, as in the region of
the orbit, the scrotum and perineum, and on the chest wall. A blue or
bluish-black discoloration occurs in patches, varying in size and depth
with the degree of force which produced the injury, and in shape with
the instrument employed. It is most intense in regions where the skin is
naturally thin and pigmented. In parts where the extravasated blood is
only separated from the oxygen of the air by a thin layer of epidermis
or by a mucous membrane, it retains its bright arterial colour. These
points are often well illustrated in cases of black eye, where the blood
effused under the conjunctiva is bright red, while that in the eyelids
is almost black. In severe contusions associated with great tension of
the skin--for example, over the front of the tibia or around the
ankle--blisters often form on the surface and constitute a possible
avenue of infection. When deeply situated, the blood tends to spread
along the lines of least resistance, partly under the influence of
gravity, passing under fasciae, between muscles, along the sheaths of
vessels, or in connective-tissue spaces, so that it may only reach the
surface after some time, and at a considerable distance from the seat of
injury. This fact is sometimes of importance in diagnosis, as, for
example, in certain fractures of the base of the skull, where
discoloration appears under the conjunctiva or behind the mastoid
process some days after the accident.

Blood extravasated deeply in the tissues gives rise to a firm,
resistant, doughy swelling, in which there may be elicited on deep
palpation a peculiar sensation, not unlike the crepitus of fracture.

It frequently happens that, from the tearing of lymph vessels, serous
fluid is extravasated, and a _lymphatic_ or _serous cyst_ may form.

In all contusions accompanied by extravasation, there is marked swelling
of the area involved, as well as pain and tenderness. The temperature
may rise to 101 o F., or, in the large extravasations that occur in
bleeders, even higher--a form of aseptic fever. The degree of shock is
variable, but sudden syncope frequently results from severe bruises of
the testicle, abdomen, or head, and occasionally marked nervous
depression follows these injuries.

Contusion of muscles or nerves may produce partial atrophy and paresis,
as is often seen after injuries in the region of the shoulder.

In alcoholic or other debilitated patients, suppuration is liable to
ensue in bruised parts, infection taking place from cocci circulating in
the blood, or through the overlying skin.

_Terminations of Contusions._--The usual termination is 