ugh the main artery as in operations for aneurysm.

When a tourniquet cannot conveniently be applied, or when its presence
interferes with the carrying out of the operation--as, for example, in
amputations at the hip or shoulder--the haemorrhage may be controlled by
preliminary ligation of the main artery above the seat of operation--for
instance, the external iliac or the subclavian. For such contingencies
also the steel skewers used by Spence and Wyeth, or a special clamp or
forceps, such as that suggested by Lynn Thomas, may be employed. In the
case of vessels which it is undesirable to occlude permanently, such as
the common carotid, the temporary application of a ligature or clamp is
useful.

#Arrest of Haemorrhage.#--_Ligature._--This is the best means of securing
the larger vessels. The divided vessel having been caught with forceps
as near to its cut end as possible, a ligature of catgut or silk is tied
round it. When there is difficulty in applying a ligature securely, for
example in a dense tissue like the scalp or periosteum, or in a friable
tissue like the thyreoid gland or the mesentery, a stitch should be
passed so as to surround the bleeding vessel a short distance from its
end, in this way ensuring a better hold and preventing the ligature from
slipping.

If the haemorrhage is from a partly divided vessel, this should be
completely cut across to enable its walls to contract and retract, and
to facilitate the application of forceps and ligatures.

_Torsion._--This method is seldom employed except for comparatively
small vessels, but it is applicable to even the largest arteries. In
employing torsion, the end of the vessel is caught with forceps, and the
terminal portion twisted round several times. The object is to tear the
inner and middle coats so that they curl up inside the lumen, while the
outer fibrous coat is twisted into a cord which occludes the end of the
vessel.

_Forci-pressure._--Bleeding from the smallest arteries and from
arterioles can usually be arrested by firmly squeezing them for a few
minutes with artery forceps. It is usually found that on the removal of
the forceps at the end of an operation no further haemorrhage takes
place. By the use of specially strong clamps, such as the angiotribes of
Doyen, large trunks may be occluded by pressure.

_Cautery._--The actual cautery or Paquelin's thermo-cautery is seldom
employed to arrest haemorrhage, but is frequently useful in preventing
it, as, for example, in the removal of piles, or in opening the bowel in
colostomy. It is used at a dull-red heat, which sears the divided ends
of the vessel and so occludes the lumen. A bright-red or a white heat
cuts the vessel across without occluding it. The separation of the
slough produced by the charring of the tissues is sometimes attended
with secondary bleeding.

_Haemostatics_ or _Styptics_.--The local application of haemostatics is
seldom to be recommended. In the treatment of epistaxis or bleeding from
the nose, of haemorrhage from the socket of a tooth, and sometimes from
ulcerating or granulating surfaces, however, they may be useful. All
clots must be removed and the drug applied directly to the bleeding
surface. Adrenalin and turpentine are the most useful drugs for this
purpose.

Haemorrhage from bone, for example the skull, may be arrested by means of
Horsley's aseptic plastic wax. To stop persistent oozing from soft
tissues, Horsley successfully applied a portion of living vascular
tissue, such as a fragment of muscle, which readily adheres to the
oozing surface and yields elements that cause coagulation of the blood
by thrombo-kinetic processes. When examined after two or three days the
muscle has been found to be closely adherent and undergoing
organisation.

#Arrest of Accidental Haemorrhage.#--The most efficient means of
temporarily controlling haemorrhage is by pressure applied with the
finger, or with a pad of gauze, directly over the bleeding point. While
this is maintained an assistant makes digital pressure, or applies a
tourniquet, over the main vessel of the limb on the proximal side of the
bleeding point. A useful _emergency tourniquet_ may be improvised by
folding a large handkerchief _en cravatte_, with a cork or piece of wood
in the fold to act as a pad. The handkerchief is applied round the
limb, with the pad over the main artery, and the ends knotted on the
lateral aspect of the limb. With a strong piece of wood the handkerchief
is wound up like a Spanish windlass, until sufficient pressure is
exerted to arrest the bleeding.

When haemorrhage is taking place from a number of small vessels, its
arrest may be effected by elevation of the bleeding part, particularly
if it is a limb. By this means the force of the circulation is
diminished and the formation of coagula favoured. Similarly, in wounds
of the hand or forearm, or of the foot or leg, bleeding may be arrested
by placing a pad in the flexure and acutely flexing the limb at the
elbow or knee respectively.