 hyperaemia is sometimes remarkably efficacious in
relieving pain and in arresting the progress of the infection. If the
fluid in the joint is in sufficient quantity to cause tension, if it
persists, or if there is reason to suspect that it is purulent, it
should be withdrawn without delay; an exploring syringe usually
suffices, the skin being punctured with a tenotomy knife, and, as
practised by Murphy, 5 to 15 c.c. of a 2 per cent. solution of formalin
in glycerin are injected and the wound is closed. In virulent infections
the injection may be repeated in twenty-four hours. Drainage by tube or
otherwise is to be condemned (Murphy). A vaccine may be prepared from
the fluid in the joint and injected into the subcutaneous cellular
tissue.

Suppuration in the peri-articular soft parts or in one of the adjacent
bones must be looked for and dealt with.

When convalescence is established, attention is directed to the
restoration of the functions of the limb, and to the prevention of
stiffness and deformity by movements and massage, and the use of hot-air
and other baths.

At a later stage, and especially in neglected cases, operative and other
measures may be required for deformity or ankylosis.


#Metastatic Forms of Pyogenic Infection#

In #pyaemia#, one or more joints may fill with pus without marked
symptoms or signs, and if the pus is aspirated without delay the joint
often recovers without impairment of function.

In #typhoid fever#, joint lesions result from infection with the typhoid
bacillus alone or along with pyogenic organisms, and run their course
with or without suppuration; there is again a remarkable absence of
symptoms, and attention may only be called to the condition by the
occurrence of dislocation.

Joint lesions are comparatively common in #scarlet fever#, and were
formerly described as scarlatinal rheumatism. The most frequent clinical
type is that of a serous synovitis, occurring within a week or ten days
from the onset of the fever. Its favourite seat is in the hand and
wrist, the sheaths of the extensor tendons as well as the synovial
membrane of the joints being involved. It does not tend to migrate to
other joints, and rarely lasts longer than a few days. It is probably
due to the specific virus of scarlet fever.

At a later stage, especially in children and in cases in which the
throat lesion is severe, an arthritis is sometimes observed that is
believed to be a metastasis from the throat; it may be acute and
suppurative, affect several joints, and exhibit a septicaemic or pyaemic
character.

The joints of the lower extremity are especially apt to suffer; the
child is seriously ill, is delirious at night, develops bed-sores over
the sacrum and, it may happen that, not being expected to recover, the
legs are allowed to assume contracture deformities with ankylosis or
dislocation at the hip and flexion ankylosis at the knees; should the
child survive, the degree of crippling may be pitiable in the extreme;
prolonged orthopaedic treatment and a series of operations--arthroplasty,
osteotomies, and resections--may be required to restore even a limited
capacity of locomotion.

#Pneumococcal affections of joints#, the result of infection with the
pneumococcus of Fraenkel, are being met with in increasing numbers. The
local lesion varies from a _synovitis_ with infiltration of the synovial
membrane and effusion of serum or pus, to an _acute arthritis_ with
erosion of cartilage, caries of the articular surfaces, and
disorganisation of the joint. The knee is most frequently affected, but
several joints may suffer at the same time. In most cases the joint
affection makes its appearance a few days after the commencement of a
pneumonia, but in a number of instances, especially among children, the
lung is not specially involved, and the condition is an indication of a
generalised pneumococcal infection, which may manifest itself by
endocarditis, empyema, meningitis, or peritonitis, and frequently has a
fatal termination. The differential diagnosis from other forms of
pyogenic infection is established by bacteriological examination of the
fluid withdrawn from the joint. The treatment is carried out on the same
lines as in other pyogenic infections, considerable reliance being
placed on the use of autogenous vaccines.

In #measles#, #diphtheria#, #smallpox#, #influenza#, and #dysentery#,
similar joint lesions may occur.

The joint lesions which accompany #acute rheumatism# or "rheumatic
fever" are believed to be due to a diplococcus. In the course of a
general illness in which there is moderate pyrexia and profuse sweating,
some of the larger joints, and not infrequently the smaller ones also,
become swollen and extremely sensitive, so that the sufferer lies in bed
helpless, dreading the slightest movement. From day to day fresh joints
are attacked, while those first affected subside, often with great
rapidity. Affections of the heart-valves and of the pericardium are
commonly present. On recovery 