, especially at their
points of attachment to the skeleton, and are known as false exostoses;
they are described with the diseases of muscles.

#Odontoma.#--An odontoma is composed of dental tissues in varying
proportions and different degrees of development, arising from
tooth-germs or from teeth still in process of growth (Bland Sutton).
Odontomas resemble teeth in so far that during their development they
remain hidden below the mucous membrane and give no evidence of their
existence. There then succeeds, usually between the twentieth and
twenty-fifth years, an eruptive stage, which is often attended with
suppuration, and this may be the means of drawing attention to the
tumour. Following Bland Sutton, several varieties of odontoma may be
distinguished according to the part of the tooth-germ concerned in their
formation.

The _epithelial odontoma_ is derived from persistent portions of the
epithelium of the enamel organ, and constitutes a multilocular cystic
tumour which is chiefly met with in the mandible. The cystic spaces of
the tumour contain a brownish glairy fluid. These tumours have been
described by Eve under the name of multilocular cystic epithelial
tumours of the jaw.

The _follicular odontoma_, also known as a _dentigerous cyst_, is
derived from the distension of a tooth follicle. It constitutes a cyst
containing a viscid fluid, and an imperfectly formed tooth is often
found embedded in its wall. The cyst usually forms in relation to one of
the permanent molars, and may attain considerable dimensions.

The _fibrous odontoma_ is the result of an overgrowth of fibrous tissue
surrounding the tooth sac, which encapsulates the tooth and prevents its
eruption. The thickened tooth sac is usually mistaken for a fibrous
tumour, until, after removal, the tooth is recognised in its interior.

_Composite Odontoma._--This is a convenient term to apply to certain
hard dental tumours which are met with in the jaws, and consist of
enamel, dentine, and cement. The tumour is to be regarded as being
derived from an abnormal growth of all the elements of a tooth germ, or
of two or more tooth germs, indiscriminately fused with one another. It
may appear in childhood, and form a smooth unyielding tumour, often of
considerable size, replacing the corresponding permanent tooth. It may
cause a purulent discharge, and in some cases it has been extruded after
sloughing of the overlying soft parts. Many examples of this variety of
odontoma, growing in the nasal cavity or in the maxillary sinus, have
been erroneously regarded as osteomas even after removal.

On section, the tumour is usually laminated, and is seen to consist
mainly of dentine with a partial covering of enamel and cement.

_Diagnosis._--Odontomas are often only diagnosed after removal. When
attended with suppuration, the condition has been mistaken for disease
of the jaw. Fibrous odontomas have been mistaken for sarcoma, and
portions of the maxilla removed unnecessarily. Any circumscribed tumour
of the jaw, particularly when met with in a young adult, should suggest
the possibility of an odontoma. Skiagrams often give useful information
both for diagnosis and for treatment.

_Treatment._--The solid varieties of odontoma can usually be shelled out
after dividing the overlying soft parts. In the follicular variety, it
is usually sufficient to excise a portion of the wall, scrape out the
interior, and remove any tooth that may be present. The cavity is then
packed and allowed to heal from the bottom.

#Fibroma.#--A fibroma is a tumour composed of fibrous connective tissue.
A distinction may be made between the _soft fibroma_, which is
comparatively rich in cells and blood vessels, and in which the fibres
are arranged loosely; and the _hard fibroma_, which is composed of
closely packed bundles of fibres often arranged in a concentric fashion
around the blood vessels. The cut surface of the soft fibroma presents a
pinkish-white, fleshy appearance, resembling the slowly growing forms of
sarcoma; that of a hard fibroma presents a dry, glistening appearance,
aptly compared to watered silk. The soft variety grows much more rapidly
than the hard. In certain fibromas--in those, for example, which grow
from the periosteum of the base of the skull and project into the
naso-pharynx--the blood vessels are dilated into sinuses and have no
proper sheaths; they therefore tend to remain open when divided, and to
bleed excessively. Transition forms between soft fibroma and sarcoma are
met with, so that in operating for their removal it is safer to take
away the capsule along with the tumour, and the patient should be kept
under observation in view of the risk of recurrence.

The skin--especially the skin of the buttock--is one of the favourite
seats of fibroma, and it may occur in a multiple form. It is met with
also in the subcutaneous and intermuscular cellular tissue, and in the
abdominal wall, where it sometimes attains considerable dimensions.
Various forms of fibroma a