y, that is, in a day or
two, the term _acute necrosis_, formerly applied to the disease, was
amply justified.

When there is marked rarefaction of the bone at the ossifying junction,
the epiphysis is liable to be separated--_epiphysiolysis_. The
separation usually takes place through the young bone of the ossifying
junction, and the surfaces of the diaphysis and epiphysis are opposed to
each other by irregular eroded surfaces bathed in pus. The separated
epiphysis may be kept in place by the periosteum, but when this has been
detached by the formation of pus beneath it, the epiphysis is liable to
be displaced by muscular action or by some movement of the limb, or it
is the diaphysis that is displaced, for example, the lower end of the
diaphysis of the femur may be projected into the popliteal space.

The epiphysial cartilage usually continues its bone-forming functions,
but when it has been seriously damaged or displaced, the further growth
of the bone in length may be interfered with. Sometimes the separated
and displaced epiphysis dies and constitutes a sequestrum.

The adjacent joint may become filled at an early stage with a serous
effusion, which may be sterile. When the cocci gain access to the joint,
the lesion assumes the characters of a purulent arthritis, which, from
its frequency during the earlier years of life, has been called _the
acute arthritis of infants_.

Separation of an epiphysis nearly always results in infection and
destruction of the adjacent joint.

Osteomyelitis is rare in the bones of the carpus and tarsus, and the
associated joints are usually infected from the outset. In flat bones,
such as the skull, the scapula, or the ilium, suppuration usually occurs
on both aspects of the bone as well as in the marrow.

_Clinical Features._--The constitutional symptoms, which are due to the
associated toxaemia, vary considerably in different cases. In mild cases
they may be so slight as to escape recognition. In exceptionally severe
cases the patient may succumb before there are obvious signs of the
localisation of the staphylococci in the bone marrow. In average cases
the temperature rises rapidly with a rigor and runs an irregular course
with morning remissions, there is marked general illness accompanied by
headache, vomiting, and sometimes delirium.

The local manifestations are pain and tenderness in relation to one of
the long bones; the pain may be so severe as to prevent sleep and to
cause the child to cry out. Tenderness on pressure over the bone is the
most valuable diagnostic sign. At a later stage there is an ill-defined
swelling in the region of the ossifying junction, with oedema of the
overlying skin and dilatation of the superficial veins.

The swelling appears earlier and is more definite in superficial bones
such as the tibia, than in those more deeply placed such as the upper
end of the femur. It may be less evident to the eye than to the fingers,
and is best appreciated by gently stroking the bone from the middle of
its shaft towards the end. The maximum thickening and tenderness usually
correspond to the junction of the diaphysis with the epiphysis, and the
swelling tails off gradually along the shaft. As time goes on there is
redness of the skin, especially over a superficial bone, such as the
tibia, the swelling becomes softer, and gives evidence of fluctuation.
This stage may be reached at the end of twenty-four hours, or not for
some days.

Suppuration spreads towards the surface, until, some days later, the
skin sloughs and pus escapes, after which the fever usually remits and
the pain and other symptoms are relieved. The pus may contain blood and
droplets of fat derived from the marrow, and in some cases minute
particles of bone are present also. The presence of fat and bony
particles in the pus confirms the medullary origin of the suppuration.

If an incision is made, the periosteum is found to be raised from the
bone; the extent of the bare bone will be found to correspond fairly
accurately with the extent of the lesion in the marrow.

_Local Complications._--The adjacent joint may exhibit symptoms which
vary from those of a simple effusion to those of a purulent _arthritis_.
The joint symptoms may count for little in the clinical picture, or, as
in the case of the hip, may so predominate as to overshadow those of the
bone lesion from which they originated.

_Separation and displacement of the epiphysis_ usually reveals itself by
an alteration in the attitude of the limb; it is nearly always
associated with suppuration in the adjacent joint.

When _pathological fracture_ of the shaft occurs, as it may do, from
some muscular effort or strain, it is attended with the usual signs of
fracture.

_Dislocation_ of the adjacent joint has been chiefly observed at the
hip; it may result from effusion into the joint and stretching of the
ligaments, or may be the sequel of a purulent arthritis; the signs of
dislocation are not so obvious as might be expected, but it is atte