hery, the osseous focus reaching the
surface of the bone at the site of reflection of the synovial membrane,
and the infection which begins at this point then spreads to the rest of
the membrane. Or it may take place in the central area, by the
projection of tuberculous granulation tissue into the joint following
upon erosion of the cartilage (Fig. 156).

[Illustration: FIG. 156.--Section of Upper End of Fibula, showing
caseating focus in marrow, erupting on articular surface and infecting
joint.]

_Changes in the Synovial Membrane._--In the majority of cases there is a
_diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane_, due to the formation of
granulation tissue, or of young connective tissue, in its substance.
This new tissue is arranged in two layers--the outer composed of fully
formed connective or fibrous tissue, the inner of embryonic tissue,
usually permeated with miliary tubercles. On opening the joint, these
tubercles may be seen on the surface of the membrane, or the surface may
be covered with a layer of fibrinous or caseating tissue. Where there is
greater resistance on the part of the tissues, there is active formation
of young connective tissue which circumscribes or encapsulates the
tubercles, so that they remain embedded in the substance of the
membrane, and are only seen on cutting into it.

The thickened synovial membrane is projected into the cavity of the
joint, filling up its pouches and recesses, and spreading over the
surface of the articular cartilage "like ivy growing on a wall."
Wherever the synovial tissue covers the cartilage it becomes adherent to
and fused with it. The morbid process may be arrested at this stage, and
fibrous adhesions form between the opposing articular surfaces, or it
may progress, in which case further changes occur, resulting in
destruction of the articular cartilage and exposure of the subjacent
bone.

In rare instances the synovial membrane presents nodular masses or
lumps, resembling the tuberculous tumours met with in the brain; they
project into the cavity of the joint, are often pedunculated, and may
give rise to the symptoms of loose body. The fringes of synovial
membrane may also undergo a remarkable development, like that observed
in arthritis deformans, and described as arborescent lipoma. Both these
types are almost exclusively met with in the knee.

_The Contents of Tuberculous Joints._--In a large proportion of cases of
synovial tuberculosis the joint is entirely filled up by the diffuse
thickening of the synovial membrane. In a small number there is an
abundant serous exudate, and with this there may be a considerable
formation of fibrin, covering the surface of the membrane and floating
in the fluid as flakes or masses; under the influence of movement it may
assume the shape of melon-seed bodies. More rarely the joint contains
pus, and the surface of the synovial membrane resembles the wall of a
cold abscess.

_Ulceration and Necrosis of Cartilage._--The synovial tissue covering
the cartilage causes pitting and perforation of the cartilage and makes
its way through it, and often spreads widely between it and the
subjacent bone; the cartilage may be detached in portions of
considerable size. It may be similarly ulcerated or detached as a result
of disease in the bone.

_Caries of Articular Surfaces._--Tuberculous infiltration of the marrow
in the surface cancelli breaks up the spongy framework of the bone into
minute irregular fragments, so that it disintegrates or crumbles
away--caries. When there is an absence of caseation and suppuration, the
condition is called _caries sicca_.

The pressure of the articular surfaces against one another favours the
progress of ulceration of cartilage and of articular caries. These
processes are usually more advanced in the areas most exposed to
pressure--for example, in the hip-joint, on the superior aspect of the
head of the femur, and on the posterior and upper segment of the
acetabulum.

The occurrence of _pathological dislocation_ is due to softening and
stretching of the ligaments which normally retain the bones in position,
and to some factor causing displacement, which may be the accumulation
of fluid or of granulations in the joint, the involuntary contraction of
muscles, or some movement or twist of the limb. The occurrence of
dislocation is also favoured by destructive changes in the bones.

_Peri-articular tubercle and abscess_ may result from the spread of
disease from the bone or joint into the surrounding tissues, either
directly or by way of the lymphatics. A peri-articular abscess may
spread in several directions, sometimes invading tendon sheaths or
bursae, and finally reaching the skin surface by tortuous sinuses.

Reactive changes in the vicinity of tuberculous joints are of common
occurrence, and play a considerable part in the production of what is
clinically known as _white swelling_. New connective tissue forms in the
peri-articular fat and between muscles and tendons. It may be tough and
