n alveoli resembling that seen in cancers. When
there is a considerable amount of intercellular fibrous tissue, the
tumour is called a _fibro-sarcoma_.

[Illustration: FIG. 56.--Fungating Sarcoma of Arm.

(Dr. J. M'Watt's case.)]

The term _lymphangio-sarcoma_ is applied when the cells of the tumour
are derived from the endothelium of lymph spaces and vessels. The
_angio-sarcomas_ are those in which blood vessels form a prominent
element in the structure of the tumour. They are sometimes derived from
innocent angiomas, and they may be so vascular as to pulsate and on
auscultation yield a blowing murmur like an aneurysm. The
_glio-sarcoma_, _myxo-sarcoma_, _chondro-sarcoma_, and _myo-sarcoma_ are
mixed forms which usually develop in pre-existing innocent tumours. The
_osteo-sarcoma_ is characterised by the formation in the tumour of bone,
the medullary spaces being occupied by sarcomatous cells in place of
marrow. The _osteoid sarcoma_ is characterised by the formation of a
tissue resembling bone but deficient in lime salts, and the _petrifying
sarcoma_ by the formation of calcified areas in the stroma. These
varieties, although met with chiefly in the bones, may occur in soft
tissues such as muscle, and in such organs as the mamma. The pigmented
varieties include the _chloroma_, which is of a light-green colour, and
the _melanotic sarcoma_, which is brown or black. The _psammoma_ is a
sarcoma containing a material resembling sand; it is chiefly met with in
the membranes of the brain. The _chordoma_ is a rare form of tumour
originating from the remains of the notochord in the region of the
spheno-occipital synchondrosis or in the sacro-coccygeal region.

_Diagnosis of Sarcoma._--A sarcoma is to be differentiated from an
inflammatory swelling such as results from tubercle, actinomycosis, or
syphilis, from an innocent tumour, and from a cancer. The points on
which the diagnosis is founded are discussed with the different tissues
and organs.

_Treatment._--The removal of the tumour by operation is the most
reliable method of treatment; in order to be successful it must be
undertaken before dissemination has taken place, and a considerable area
of healthy tissue beyond the apparent margin of the growth must be
removed, and in tumours near the surface of the body, the overlying skin
also.

In order to prevent recurrence, a tube of _radium_, to which a silk
thread is attached, is inserted into the space from which the tumour was
removed; the thread is brought out at the drain-opening, and at the end
of a week or ten days the tube of radium is removed by pulling on the
thread. Radium causes a reaction in the tissues attended with exudation
from the vessels, for the escape of which provision must be made. If
radium is not available, the affected area is repeatedly exposed to the
action of the _X-rays_ as soon as the wound has healed. The employment
of these measures has diminished to a remarkable degree the recurrence
of sarcoma after operation.

It will readily be understood that the less thoroughly or radically the
growth has been removed, the more do we depend upon radium or the X-rays
for bringing about a permanent cure, and that in advanced cases of
sarcoma and in cases in which, on account of their anatomical situation,
removal by operation is necessarily incomplete, the prospect of cure is
still more dependent on the use of radium or of the X-rays. Finally,
there are cases in which removal by operation is impossible, the
so-called _inoperable sarcoma_; a tube of radium, to which a silk thread
is attached, is inserted into the substance of the tumour, either
through an opening made by a large trocar, or, when necessary, by open
dissection. A second tube of radium is placed upon the skin over the
tumour and is secured there by a stitch or by a strip of plaster, thus
securing a cross-fire action of the radium rays, both from within and
without, as this is found to be much more efficacious in destroying or
inhibiting the cellular elements of the growth. The tubes of radium are
left _in situ_ for from eight to fourteen days, according to the power
of the radium employed, but are moved about every second day or so in
order that every part of the tumour may be efficiently radiated. If the
tumour shrinks in size after the use of radium and becomes operable, it
should be removed before time is given it to resume its growth. It will
depend upon the subsequent course of the disease, whether or not a
second, or it may be even a third, application of radium will be
required.

Where neither radium nor X-rays is available or applicable, recourse may
be had to the injection of Coley's fluid, a preparation containing the
mixed toxins of the streptococcus of erysipelas and the bacillus
prodigiosus; or of selenium.


EPITHELIAL TUMOURS

An excessive and erratic growth of epithelium is the essential and
distinguishing feature of these tumours. The innocent forms are the
papilloma and the adenoma; the malignant, the carcinoma or 