ish fluid. On removing the raised epidermis, the congested and
highly sensitive papillae of the skin are exposed. Unna has found that
pyogenic bacteria are invariably present in these blisters. Burns of the
second degree leave no scar but frequently a persistent discoloration.
In rare instances the burned area becomes the seat of a peculiar
overgrowth of fibrous tissue of the nature of keloid (p 401).

_Burns of Third Degree--Partial Destruction of the Skin._--The epidermis
and papillae are destroyed in patches, leaving hard, dry, and insensitive
sloughs of a yellow or black colour. The pain in these burns is
intense, but passes off during the first or second day, to return again,
however, when, about the end of a week, the sloughs separate and expose
the nerve filaments of the underlying skin. Granulations spring up to
fill the gap, and are rapidly covered by epithelium, derived partly from
the margins and partly from the remains of skin glands which have not
been completely destroyed. These latter appear on the surface of the
granulations as small bluish islets which gradually increase in size,
become of a greyish-white colour, and ultimately blend with one another
and with the edges. The resulting cicatrix may be slightly depressed,
but otherwise exhibits little tendency to contract and cause deformity.

_Burns of Fourth Degree--Total Destruction of the Skin._--These follow
the more prolonged action of any form of intense heat. Large, black, dry
eschars are formed, surrounded by a zone of intense congestion. Pain is
less severe, and is referred to the parts that have been burned to a
less degree. Infection is liable to occur and to lead to wide
destruction of the surrounding skin. The amount of granulation tissue
necessary to fill the gap is therefore great; and as the epithelial
covering can only be derived from the margins--the skin glands being
completely destroyed--the healing process is slow. The resulting scars
are irregular, deep and puckered, and show a great tendency to contract.
Keloid frequently develops in such cicatrices. When situated in the
region of the face, neck, or flexures of joints, much deformity and
impairment of function may result (Fig. 63).

[Illustration: FIG. 63.--Cicatricial Contraction following Severe Burn.]

In _burns of the fifth degree_ the lesion extends through the
subcutaneous tissue and involves the muscles; while in those of the
_sixth degree_ it passes still more deeply and implicates the bones.
These burns are comparatively limited in area, as they are usually
produced by prolonged contact with hot metal or caustics. Burns of the
fifth and sixth degrees are met with in epileptics or intoxicated
persons who fall into the fire. Large blood vessels, nerve-trunks,
joints, or serous cavities may be implicated.

#General Phenomena.#--It is customary to divide the clinical history of
a severe burn into three periods; but it is to be observed that the
features characteristic of the periods have been greatly modified since
burns have been treated on the same lines as other wounds.

_The first period_ lasts for from thirty-six to forty-eight hours,
during which time the patient remains in a more or less profound state
of _shock_, and there is a remarkable absence of pain. When shock is
absent or little marked, however, the amount of suffering may be great.
When the injury proves fatal during this period, death is due to shock,
probably aggravated by the absorption of poisonous substances produced
in the burned tissues. In fatal cases there is often evidence of
cerebral congestion and oedema.

The _second period_ begins when the shock passes off, and lasts till the
sloughs separate. The outstanding feature of this period is _toxaemia_,
manifested by fever, the temperature rising to 102 o, 103 o, or 104 o F.,
and congestive or inflammatory conditions of internal organs, giving
rise to such clinical complications as bronchitis, broncho-pneumonia, or
pleurisy--especially in burns of the thorax; or meningitis and
cerebritis, when the neck or head is the seat of the burn. Intestinal
catarrh associated with diarrhoea is not uncommon; and ulceration of the
duodenum leading to perforation has been met with in a few cases. These
phenomena are much more prominent when bacterial infection has taken
place, and it seems probable that they are to be attributed chiefly to
the infection, as they have become less frequent and less severe since
burns have been treated like other breaches of the surface. Albuminuria
is a fairly constant symptom in severe burns, and is associated with
congestion of the kidneys. In burns implicating the face, neck, mouth,
or pharynx, oedema of the glottis is a dangerous complication, entailing
as it does the risk of suffocation.

The _third period_ begins when the sloughs separate, usually between
the seventh and fourteenth days, and lasts till the wound heals, its
duration depending upon the size, depth, and asepticity of the raw area.
The chief causes of death