s or offshoots;
they are therefore liable to recur after an operation which is
restricted to the removal of the main tumour. They are not encapsulated,
although they may appear to be circumscribed by condensation of the
surrounding tissues; they are rarely multiple at the outset, but show a
marked tendency to spread to other parts of the body. Fragments of the
parent tumour may become separated and be carried off in the lymph or
blood-stream and deposited in other parts of the body, where they give
rise to secondary growths. Malignant tumours tend to invade and destroy
the overlying skin or mucous membrane, and thus give rise to bleeding
ulcers; if the tumour tissue protrudes through the gap in the skin, it
is said to _fungate_. In course of time they give rise to a condition of
ill-health or _cachexia_, the patient becoming pale, sallow, feverish,
and emaciated, probably as a result of chronic poisoning from the
absorption of toxic products from the tumour. They ultimately destroy
life, it may be by their local effects, such as ulceration and
haemorrhage, by favouring the entrance of septic infection, by
interfering with the function of organs which are essential to life, by
cachexia, or by a combination of these effects.

The situation of a malignant tumour exercises considerable influence on
the rapidity, as well as on the mode, in which it causes death. Some
cancers, such as that known as "rodent," show malignant features which
are entirely local, while others, such as melanotic cancer, exhibit a
malignancy characterised by rapid generalisation of growths throughout
the body. Tumours that are structurally alike may show variations in
malignancy, according to their situation and to the age of the patient,
as well as to other factors which are as yet unknown.

In attempting to arrive at a conclusion as to the innocence or
malignancy of any tumour, too much reliance must not be placed on its
histological features; its situation, rate of growth, and other clinical
features must also be taken into consideration. It cannot be too
emphatically stated that there is no hard-and-fast line between innocent
and malignant growths; there is an indefinite transition from one to the
other. The possibility of the transformation of a benign into a
malignant tumour must be admitted. Such a transformation implies a
change in the structure of the growth, and has been observed especially
in fibrous and cartilaginous tumours, in tumours of the thyreoid gland,
and in uterine fibroids. The alteration in character may take place
under the influence of injury, prolonged or repeated irritation,
incomplete removal of the benign tumour by operation, or the altered
physiological conditions of the tissues which attend upon advancing
years.

After a tumour has been removed by operation it should as a routine
measure be subjected to microscopical examination; the results are often
instructive and sometimes other than what was expected.

#Varieties of Tumours.#--In the following description, tumours are
classified on an anatomical basis, taking in order first the
connective-tissue group and subsequently those that originate in
epithelium.


INNOCENT CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS

#Lipoma.#--A lipoma is composed of fat resembling that normally present
in the body. The commonest variety is the _subcutaneous lipoma_, which
grows from the subcutaneous fat, and forms a soft, irregularly lobulated
tumour (Fig. 45). The fat is arranged in lobules separated by
connective-tissue septa, which are continuous with the capsule
surrounding the tumour and with the overlying skin, which becomes
dimpled or puckered when an attempt is made to pinch it up. As the fat
is almost fluid at the body temperature, fluctuation can usually be
detected. These tumours vary greatly in size, occur at all ages, grow
slowly, and, while generally solitary, are sometimes multiple. They are
most commonly met with on the shoulder, buttock, or back. In certain
situations, such as the thigh and perineum, they tend to become
pedunculated (Fig. 46).

A fatty tumour is to be diagnosed from a cold abscess and from a cyst.
The distinguishing features of the lipoma are the tacking down and
dimpling of the overlying skin, the lobulation of the tumour, which is
recognised when it is pressed upon with the flat of the hand, and, more
reliable than either of these, the mobility, the tumour slipping away
when pressed upon at its margin.

[Illustration: FIG. 45.--Subcutaneous Lipoma showing lobulation.]

The prognosis is more favourable than in any other tumour as it never
changes its characters; the only reasons for its removal by operation
are its unsightliness and its probable increase in size in the course of
years. The operation consists in dividing the skin and capsule over the
tumour and shelling it out. Care must be taken that none of the outlying
lobules are left behind. If the overlying skin is damaged or closely
adherent, it should be removed along with the tumour.

[Illustration: F