y and for a longer
period than others. Those at the knee, for example, contribute more to
the length of limb than do those at the hip or ankle, and they are also
the last to unite. In the upper limb the more active epiphyses are at
the shoulder and wrist, and these also are the last to unite.

The activity of the epiphysial cartilage may be modified as a result of
disease. In rickets, for example, the formation of new bone may take
place unequally, and may go on more rapidly in one half of the disc than
in the other, with the result that the axis of the shaft comes to
deviate from the normal, giving rise to knock-knee or bow-knee. In
bacterial diseases originating in the marrow, if the epiphysial junction
is directly involved in the destructive process, its bone-forming
functions may be retarded or abolished, and the subsequent growth of the
bone be seriously interfered with. On the other hand, if it is not
directly involved but is merely influenced by the proximity of an
infective focus, its bone-forming functions may be stimulated by the
diluted toxins and the growth of the bone in length exaggerated. In
paralysed limbs the growth from the epiphyses is usually little short of
the normal. The result of interference with growth is more injurious in
the lower than in the upper limb, because, from the functional point of
view, it is essential that the lower extremities should be approximately
of equal length. In the forearm or leg, where there are two parallel
bones, if the growth of one is arrested the continued growth of the
other results in a deviation of the hand or foot to one side.

In certain diseases, such as rickets and inherited syphilis, and in
developmental anomalies such as achondroplasia, _dwarfing_ of the
skeleton results from defective growth of bone at the ossifying
junctions. Conversely, excessive growth of bone at the ossifying
junctions results in abnormal height of the skeleton or _giantism_ as a
result, for example, of increased activity of the pituitary in
adolescents, and in eunuchs who have been castrated in childhood or
adolescence; in the latter, union of the epiphyses at the ends of the
long bones is delayed beyond the usual period at which the skeleton
attains maturity.

#Regeneration of Bone.#--When bone has been lost or destroyed as a
result of injury or disease, it is capable of being reproduced, the
extent to which regeneration takes place varying under different
conditions. The chief part in the regeneration of bone is played by the
osteoblasts in the adjacent marrow and in the deeper layer of the
periosteum. The shaft of a long bone may be reproduced after having been
destroyed by disease or removed by operation. The flat bones of the
skull and the bones of the face, which are primarily developed in
membrane, have little capacity of regeneration; hence, when bone has
been lost or removed in these situations, there results a permanent
defect.

Wounds or defects in articular cartilage are repaired by fibrous or
osseous tissue derived from the subjacent cancellous spaces.

_Transplantation of Bone--Bone-grafting._--Clinical experience is
conclusive that a portion of bone which has been completely detached
from its surroundings--for example, a trephine circle, or a flap of bone
detached with the saw, or the loose fragments in a compound
fracture--may become, if replaced in position, firmly and permanently
incorporated with the surrounding bone. Embedded foreign bodies, on the
other hand, such as ivory pegs or decalcified bone, exhibit, on removal
after a sufficient interval, evidence of having been eroded, in the
shape of worm-eaten depressions and perforations, and do not become
united or fused to the surrounding bone. It follows from this that the
implanting of living bone is to be preferred to the implanting of dead
bone or of foreign material. We believe that transplanted living bone
when placed under favourable conditions survives and becomes
incorporated with the bone with which it is in contact, and does not
merely act as a scaffolding. We believe also that the retention of the
periosteum on the graft is not essential, but, by favouring the
establishment of vascular connections, it contributes to the survival of
the graft and the success of the transplantation. Macewen maintains that
bone grafts "take" better if broken up into small fragments; we regard
this as unnecessary. Bone grafts yield better functional results when
they are immovably fixed to the adjacent bone by suture, pegs, or
plates. As in all grafting procedures, asepsis is essential.

Transplanted bone retains its vitality when embedded in the soft parts,
but is gradually absorbed and replaced by fibrous tissue.


DISEASES OF BONE

The morbid processes met with in bone originate in the same way and lead
to the same results as do similar processes in other tissues. The
structural peculiarities of bone, however, and the important changes
which take place in the skeleton during the period of growth, modify
certa