hat sudden and severe pain is excited by movement
of the affected part. The lesion consists in inflammatory hyperplasia of
the connective tissue; the new tissue differs from normal fibrous tissue
in its tendency to contract, in being swollen, painful and tender on
pressure, and in the fact that it can be massaged away (Stockman). It
would appear to involve mainly the fibrous tissue of muscles, although
it may extend from this to aponeuroses, ligaments, periosteum, and the
sheaths of nerves. The term _fibrositis_ was applied to it by Gowers in
1904.

In _lumbago_--_lumbo-sacral fibrositis_--the pain is usually located
over the sacrum, the sacro-iliac joint, or the aponeurosis of the lumbar
muscles on one or both sides. The amount of tenderness varies, and so
long as the patient is still he is free from pain. The slightest
attempt to alter his position, however, is attended by pain, which may
be so severe as to render him helpless for the moment. The pain is most
marked on rising from the stooping or sitting posture, and may extend
down the back of the hip, especially if, as is commonly the case,
lumbago and gluteal fibrosis coexist. Once a patient has suffered from
lumbago, it is liable to recur, and an attack may be determined by
errors of diet, changes of weather, exposure to cold or unwonted
exertion. It is met with chiefly in male adults, and is most apt to
occur in those who are gouty or are the subjects of oxaluric dyspepsia.

_Gluteal fibrositis_ usually follows exposure to wet, and affects the
gluteal muscles, particularly the medius, and their aponeurotic
coverings. When the condition has lasted for some time, indurated
strands or nodules can be detected on palpating the relaxed muscles. The
patient complains of persistent aching and stiffness over the buttock,
and sometimes extending down the lateral aspect of the thigh. The pain
is aggravated by such movements as bring the affected muscles into
action. It is not referred to the line of the sciatic nerve, nor is
there tenderness on pressing over the nerve, or sensations of tingling
or numbness in the leg or foot.

If untreated, the morbid process may implicate the sheath of the sciatic
nerve and cause genuine sciatic neuralgia (Llewellyn and Jones). A
similar condition may implicate the fascia lata of the thigh, or the
calf muscles and their aponeuroses--_crural fibrositis_.

In _painful stiff-neck_, or "rheumatic torticollis," the pain is located
in one side of the neck, and is excited by some inadvertent movement.
The head is held stiffly on one side as in wry-neck, the patient
contracting the sterno-mastoid. There may be tenderness over the
vertebral spines or in the lines of the cervical nerves, and the
sterno-mastoid may undergo atrophy. This affection is more often met
with in children.

In _pleurodynia_--_intercostal fibrositis_--the pain is in the line of
the intercostal nerves, and is excited by movement of the chest, as in
coughing, or by any bodily exertion. There is often marked tenderness.

A similar affection is met with in the _shoulder and arm_--_brachial
fibrositis_--especially on waking from sleep. There is acute pain on
attempting to abduct the arm, and there may be localised tenderness in
the region of the axillary nerve.

_Treatment._--The general treatment is concerned with the diet,
attention to the stomach, bowels, and kidneys and with the correction
of any gouty tendencies that may be present. Remedies such as
salicylates are given for the relief of pain, and for this purpose drugs
of the aspirin type are to be preferred, and these may be followed by
large doses of iodide of potassium. Great benefit is derived from
massage, and from the induction of hyperaemia by means of heat. Cupping
or needling, or, in exceptional cases, hypodermic injections of
antipyrin or morphin, may be called for. To prevent relapses of lumbago,
the patient must take systematic exercises of all kinds, especially such
as bring out the movements of the vertebral column and hip-joints.

[Illustration: FIG. 109.--Volkmann's Ischaemic Contracture. When the
wrist is flexed to a right angle it is possible to extend the fingers.

(Photographs lent by Mr. Lawford Knaggs)]

#Contracture of Muscles.#--Permanent shortening of muscles results from
the prolonged approximation of their points of attachment, or from
structural changes in their substance produced by injury or by disease.
It is a frequent accompaniment and sometimes a cause of deformities, in
the treatment of which lengthening of the shortened muscles or their
tendons may be an essential step.

#Myositis.#--_Ischaemic Myositis._--Volkmann was the first to describe a
form of myositis followed by contracture, resulting from interference
with the arterial blood supply. It is most frequently observed in the
flexor muscles of the forearm in children and young persons under
treatment for fractures in the region of the elbow, the splints and
bandages causing compression of the blood vessels. There is consid