and shades
off into the surrounding bone. The gumma may be completely absorbed or
it may give place to a hard node. In some cases the gumma softens in the
centre, the skin becomes adherent, thin, and red, and finally gives way.
The opening in the skin persists as a sinus, or develops into a typical
ulcer with irregular, crescentic margins; in either case a probe reveals
the presence of carious bone or of a sequestrum. The health may be
impaired as a result of mixed infection, and the absorption of toxins
and waxy degeneration in the viscera may ultimately be induced.

A _central gumma_ in a long bone may not reveal its presence until it
erupts through the shell and reaches the periosteal surface or invades
an adjacent joint. Sometimes the first manifestation is a fracture of
the bone produced by slight violence.

In radiograms the appearance of syphilitic bones is usually
characteristic. When there is hyperostosis and sclerosis, the shaft
appears denser and broader than normal, and the contour is uneven or
wavy. When there is a central gumma, the shadow is interrupted by a
rounded clear area, like that of a chondroma or myeloma, but there is
sclerosis round about.

_Diagnosis._--The conditions most liable to be mistaken for syphilitic
disease of bone are chronic staphylococcal osteomyelitis, tuberculosis,
and sarcoma; and the diagnosis is to be made by the history and progress
of the disease, the result of examination with the X-rays, and the
results of specific tests and treatment.

_Treatment._--The general health is to be improved by open air, by
nourishing food, and by the administration of cod-liver oil, iron, and
arsenic. Anti-syphilitic remedies should be given, and if they are
administered before there is any destruction of tissue, the benefit
derived from them is usually marked.

Radiograms show the rapid absorption of the new bone both on the surface
and in the marrow, and are of value in establishing the therapeutic
diagnosis.

In certain cases, and particularly when there are destructive changes in
the bone complicated with pyogenic infection, specific remedies have
little effect. In cases of persistent or relapsing gummatous disease
with ulceration of skin, it is often necessary to remove the diseased
soft parts with the sharp spoon and scissors, and to gouge or chisel
away the unhealthy bone, on the same lines as in tuberculous disease.
When hyperostosis and sclerosis of the bone is attended with severe pain
which does not yield to blistering, the periosteum may be incised and
the sclerosed bone perforated with a drill or trephine.

#Lesions of Bone in Inherited Syphilis.#--_Craniotabes_, in which the
flat bones of the skull undergo absorption in patches, was formerly
regarded as syphilitic, but it is now known to result from prolonged
malnutrition from any cause. _Bossing of the skull_ resulting in the
formation of Parrot's nodes is also being withdrawn from the category of
syphilitic affections. The lesions in infancy--epiphysitis, bossing of
the skull, and craniotabes--have been referred to in the chapter on
inherited syphilis.

_Epiphysitis or Syphilitic Perichondritis._--The first of these terms is
misleading, because the lesion involves the ossifying junction and the
shaft of the bone, and the epiphysis only indirectly. The young bone is
replaced by granulation tissue, so that large clear areas are seen with
the X-rays. The symptoms are referred to the joint, because it is there
that the muscles are inserted and drag on the perichondrium when
movement occurs; swelling is most marked in the vicinity of the joint,
and it may be added to by effusion into the synovial cavity. The baby,
usually under six months, is noticed to be feverish and fretful and to
cry when touched. The mother discovers that the pain is caused by moving
a particular limb, usually the arm, as the humerus, radius, and ulna are
the bones most commonly affected; the limb, moreover, hangs useless at
the side as if paralysed, and the condition was formerly described as
_syphilitic pseudo-paralysis_.

The lesions met with later correspond to those of the tertiary period of
the acquired disease, but as they affect bones which are still actively
growing, the effects are more striking. Gummatous disease may come and
go over periods of many years, with the result that the external
appearance and architectural arrangement of a long bone come to be
profoundly altered. In the tibia, for example, the shaft is bowed
forward in a gentle curve, which is compared to the curve of a
sabre--"sabre-blade" deformity (Fig. 132). The diffuse thickening all
round the bone obscures the sharp margins so that the bone becomes
circular in section and the anterior and mesial edges are blunted, and
the comparison to a cucumber is deserved. In some cases the tibia is
actually increased in length as well as in girth.

[Illustration: FIG. 132.--Sabre-blade Deformity of Left Tibia in
Inherited Syphilis.

(From a photograph lent by Sir George T. Beatson.)