part of the body. It also affects parts covered by mucous membrane, such
as the cheek, tongue, and soft palate. The swelling is rounded or
lobulated, and projects beyond the level of its surroundings. Sometimes
the skin is invaded by the naevoid tissue over the whole extent of the
tumour, sometimes only over a limited area. Frequently the margin only
is of a bright-red colour, while the skin in the centre resembles a
cicatrix. The swelling is reduced by steady pressure, and increases in
size and becomes tense when the child cries.

[Illustration: FIG. 68.--Mixed Naevus of Nose which was subsequently
cured by Electrolysis.]

_Prognosis._--The rate of growth of the subcutaneous and mixed forms of
naevi varies greatly. They sometimes increase rapidly, especially during
the first few months of life; after this they usually grow at the same
rate as the child, or more slowly. There is a decided tendency to
disappearance of these varieties, fully 50 per cent. undergoing natural
cure by a process of obliteration, similar to the obliteration of
vessels in cicatricial tissue. This usually begins about the period of
the first dentition, sometimes at the second dentition, and sometimes at
puberty. On the other hand, an increased activity of growth may be shown
at these periods. The onset of natural cure is recognised by the tumour
becoming firmer and less compressible, and, in the mixed variety, by the
colour becoming less bright. Injury, infection, or ulceration of the
overlying skin may initiate the curative process.

Towards adult life the spaces in a subcutaneous naevus may become greatly
enlarged, leading to the formation of a cavernous angioma.

_Treatment._--In view of the frequency with which subcutaneous and mixed
naevi disappear spontaneously, interference is only called for when the
growth of the tumour is out of proportion to that of the child, or when,
from its situation--for example in the vicinity of the eye--any marked
increase in its size would render it less amenable to treatment.

The methods of treatment most generally applicable are the use of radium
and carbon dioxide snow, igni-puncture, electrolysis, and excision.

For naevi situated on exposed parts, where it is desirable to avoid a
scar, the use of _radium_ is to be preferred. The tube of radium is
applied at intervals to different parts of the naevus, the duration and
frequency of the applications varying with the strength of the
emanations and the reaction produced. The object aimed at is to induce
obliteration of the naevoid tissue by cicatricial contraction without
destroying the overlying skin. _Carbon-dioxide snow_ may be employed in
the same manner, but the results are inferior to those obtained by
radium.

_Igni-puncture_ consists in making a number of punctures at different
parts of the naevus with a fine-pointed thermo-cautery, with the object
of starting at each point a process of cicatrisation which extends
throughout the naevoid tissue and so obliterates the vessels.

_Electrolysis_ acts by decomposing the blood and tissues into their
constituent elements--oxygen and acids appearing at the positive,
hydrogen and bases at the negative electrode. These substances and gases
being given off in a nascent condition, at once enter into new
combinations with anything in the vicinity with which they have a
chemical affinity. In the naevus the practical result of this reaction is
that at the positive pole nitric acid, and at the negative pole caustic
potash, both in a state of minute subdivision, make their appearance.
The effect on the tissues around the positive pole, therefore, is
equivalent to that of an acid cauterisation, and on those round the
negative pole, to an alkaline cauterisation.

As the process is painful, a general anaesthetic is necessary. The
current used should be from 20 to 80 milliamperes, gradually increasing
from zero, without shock; three to six large Bunsen cells give a
sufficient current, and no galvanometer is required. Steel needles,
insulated with vulcanite to within an eighth of an inch of their points,
are the best. Both poles are introduced into the naevus, the positive
being kept fixed at one spot, while the negative is moved about so as to
produce a number of different tracks of cauterisation. On no account
must either pole be allowed to come in contact with the skin, lest a
slough be formed. The duration of the sitting is determined by the
effect produced, as indicated by the hardening of the tumour, the
average duration being from fifteen to twenty minutes. If pallor of the
skin appears, it indicates that the needles are too near the surface, or
that the blood supply to the integument is being cut off, and is an
indication to stop. To cauterise the track and so prevent bleeding, the
needles should be slowly withdrawn while the current is flowing. When
the skin is reached the current is turned off. The punctures are covered
with collodion. Six or eight weeks should be allowed to elapse before
repeating th