s fluid accumulates
around a foreign body within its capsule, constituting a cyst.

Substances like paraffin, strands of silk used to bridge a gap in a
tendon, or portions of calcined bone, instead of being encapsulated, are
gradually permeated and eventually replaced by new connective tissue.

Embedded bodies may remain in the tissues for an indefinite period
without giving rise to inconvenience. At any time, however, they may
cause trouble, either as a result of infective complications, or by
inducing the formation of a mass of inflammatory tissue around them,
which may simulate a gumma, a tuberculous focus, or a sarcoma. This
latter condition may give rise to difficulties in diagnosis,
particularly if there is no history forthcoming of the entrance of the
foreign body. The ignorance of patients regarding the possible lodgment
in the tissues of a foreign body--even of considerable size--is
remarkable. In such cases the X-rays will reveal the presence of the
foreign body if it is sufficiently opaque to cast a shadow. The heavy,
lead-containing varieties of glass throw very definite shadows little
inferior in sharpness and definition to those of metal; almost all the
ordinary forms of commercial glass also may be shown up by the X-rays.

Foreign bodies encapsulated in the peritoneal cavity are specially
dangerous, as the proximity of the intestine furnishes a constant
possibility of infection.

The question of removal of the foreign body must be decided according to
the conditions present in individual cases; in searching for a foreign
body in the tissues, unless it has been accurately located, a general
anaesthetic is to be preferred.


BURNS AND SCALDS

The distinction between a burn which results from the action of dry heat
on the tissues of the body and a scald which results from the action of
moist heat, has no clinical significance.

In young and debilitated subjects hot poultices may produce injuries of
the nature of burns. In old people with enfeebled circulation mere
exposure to a strong fire may cause severe degrees of burning, the
clothes covering the part being uninjured. This may also occur about the
feet, legs, or knees of persons while intoxicated who have fallen asleep
before the fire.

The damage done to the tissues by strong caustics, such as fuming nitric
acid, sulphuric acid, caustic potash, nitrate of silver, or arsenical
paste, presents pathological and clinical features almost identical with
those resulting from heat. Electricity and the Rontgen rays also produce
lesions of the nature of burns.

_Pathology of Burns._--Much discussion has taken place regarding the
explanation of the rapidly fatal issue in extensive superficial burns.
On post-mortem examination the lesions found in these cases are: (1)
general hyperaemia of all the organs of the abdominal, thoracic, and
cerebro-spinal cavities; (2) marked leucocytosis, with destruction of
red corpuscles, setting free haemoglobin which lodges in the epithelial
cells of the tubules of the kidneys; (3) minute thrombi and
extravasations throughout the tissues of the body; (4) degeneration of
the ganglion cells of the solar plexus; (5) oedema and degeneration of
the lymphoid tissue throughout the body; (6) cloudy swelling of the
liver and kidneys, and softening and enlargement of the spleen. Bardeen
suggests that these morbid phenomena correspond so closely to those met
with where the presence of a toxin is known to produce them, that in all
probability death is similarly due to the action of some poison produced
by the action of heat on the skin and on the proteins of the blood.

#Clinical Features--Local Phenomena.#--The most generally accepted
classification of burns is that of Dupuytren, which is based upon the
depth of the lesion. Six degrees are thus, recognised: (1) hyperaemia or
erythema; (2) vesication; (3) partial destruction of the true skin; (4)
total destruction of the true skin; (5) charring of muscles; (6)
charring of bones.

It must be observed, however, that burns met with at the bedside always
illustrate more than one of these degrees, the deeper forms always being
associated with those less deep, and the clinical picture is made up of
the combined characters of all. A burn is classified in terms of its
most severe portion. It is also to be remarked that the extent and
severity of a burn usually prove to be greater than at first sight
appears.

_Burns of the first degree_ are associated with erythema of the skin,
due to hyperaemia of its blood vessels, and result from scorching by
flame, from contact with solids or fluids below 212 o F., or from
exposure to the sun's rays. They are characterised clinically by acute
pain, redness, transitory swelling from oedema, and subsequent
desquamation of the surface layers of the epidermis. A special form of
pigmentation of the skin is seen on the front of the legs of women from
exposure to the heat of the fire.

_Burns of Second Degree--Vesication of the Skin._--These are
characterise