he unyielding bone. It may be compressed by a
tourniquet, or it may be bruised or torn in fractures of the upper end
of the bone. It has been divided in accidental wounds,--by a scythe, for
example,--in incising for cellulitis, and in performing subcutaneous
tenotomy of the biceps tendon. Cases have been observed of paralysis of
the nerve as a result of prolonged acute flexion of the knee in certain
occupations.

When the nerve is divided, the most obvious result is "drop-foot"; the
patient is unable to dorsiflex the foot and cannot lift his toes off the
ground, so that in walking he is obliged to jerk the foot forwards and
laterally. The loss of sensibility depends upon whether the nerve is
divided above or below the origin of the large cutaneous branch which
comes off just before it passes round the neck of the fibula. In course
of time the foot becomes inverted and the toes are pointed--pes
equino-varus--and trophic sores are liable to form.

#The Tibial (internal popliteal) nerve# is rarely injured.

#The Cranial nerves# are considered with affections of the head and neck
(Vol. II.).


NEURALGIA

The term neuralgia is applied clinically to any pain which follows the
course of a nerve, and is not referable to any discoverable cause. It
should not be applied to pain which results from pressure on a nerve by
a tumour, a mass of callus, an aneurysm, or by any similar gross lesion.
We shall only consider here those forms of neuralgia which are amenable
to surgical treatment.

#Brachial Neuralgia.#--The pain is definitely located in the
distribution of one of the branches or nerve roots, is often
intermittent, and is usually associated with tingling and disturbance of
tactile sensation. The root of the neck should be examined to exclude
pressure as the cause of the pain by a cervical rib, a tumour, or an
aneurysm. When medical treatment fails, the nerve-trunks may be injected
with saline solution or recourse may be had to operative measures, the
affected cords being exposed and stretched through an incision in the
posterior triangle of the neck. If this fails to give relief, the more
serious operation of resecting the posterior roots of the affected
nerves within the vertebral canal may be considered.

_Neuralgia of the sciatic nerve_--#sciatica#--is the most common form of
neuralgia met with in surgical practice.

It is chiefly met with in adults of gouty or rheumatic tendencies who
suffer from indigestion, constipation, and oxaluria--in fact, the same
type of patients who are liable to lumbago, and the two affections are
frequently associated. In hospital practice it is commonly met with in
coal-miners and others who assume a squatting position at work. The
onset of the pain may follow over-exertion and exposure to cold and wet,
especially in those who do not take regular exercise. Any error of diet
or indulgence in beer or wine may contribute to its development.

The essential symptom is paroxysmal or continuous pain along the course
of the nerve in the buttock, thigh, or leg. It may be comparatively
slight, or it may be so severe as to prevent sleep. It is aggravated by
movement, so that the patient walks lame or is obliged to lie up. It is
aggravated also by any movement which tends to put the nerve on the
stretch, as in bending down to put on the shoes, such movements also
causing tingling down the nerve, and sometimes numbness in the foot.
This may be demonstrated by flexing the thigh on the abdomen, the knee
being kept extended; there is no pain if the same manoeuvre is repeated
with the knee flexed. The nerve is sensitive to pressure, the most
tender points being its emergence from the greater sciatic foramen, the
hollow between the trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, and where the
common peroneal nerve winds round the neck of the fibula. The muscles of
the thigh are often wasted and are liable to twitch.

The clinical features vary a good deal in different cases; the affection
is often obstinate, and may last for many weeks or even months.

In the sciatica that results from neuritis and perineuritis, there is
marked tenderness on pressure due to the involvement of the nerve
filaments in the sheath of the nerve, and there may be patches of
cutaneous anaesthesia, loss of tendon reflexes, localised wasting of
muscles, and vaso-motor and trophic changes. The presence of the
reaction of degeneration confirms the diagnosis of neuritis. In
long-standing cases the pain and discomfort may lead to a postural
scoliosis (_ischias-scoliotica_).

_Diagnosis._--Pain referred along the course of the sciatic nerve on one
side, or, as is sometimes the case, on both sides, is a symptom of
tumours of the uterus, the rectum, or the pelvic bones. It may result
also from the pressure of an abscess or an aneurysm either inside the
pelvis or in the buttock, and is sometimes associated with disease of
the spinal medulla, such as tabes. Gluteal fibrositis may be mistaken
for sciatica. It is also necessary to exclude such c