top bleeding by reducing the force of the heart's action.

On the other hand, there are conditions which retard the natural arrest.
When, for example, a vessel is only partly divided, the contraction and
retraction of the muscular coat, instead of diminishing the calibre of
the artery, causes the wound in the vessel to gape; by completing the
division of the vessel under these circumstances the bleeding can often
be arrested. In certain situations, also, the arteries are so intimately
connected with their sheaths, that when cut across they were unable to
retract and contract--for example, in the scalp, in the penis, and in
bones--and copious bleeding may take place from comparatively small
vessels. This inability of the vessels to contract and retract is met
with also in inflamed and oedematous parts and in scar tissue. Arteries
divided in the substance of a muscle also sometimes bleed unduly. Any
increase in the force of the heart's action, such as may result from
exertion, excitement, or over-stimulation, also interferes with the
natural arrest. Lastly, in bleeders, there are conditions which
interfere with the natural arrest of haemorrhage.

#Repair of a Vessel ligated in its Continuity.#--When a ligature is
applied to an artery it should be pulled sufficiently tight to occlude
the lumen without causing rupture of its coats. It often happens,
however, that the compression causes rupture of the inner and middle
coats, so that only the outer coat remains in the grasp of the ligature.
While this weakens the wall of the vessel, it has the advantage of
hastening coagulation, by bringing the blood into contact with damaged
tissue. Whether the inner and middle coats are ruptured or not, blood
coagulates both above and below the ligature, the proximal clot being
longer and broader than that on the distal side. In small arteries these
clots extend as far as the nearest collateral branch, but in the larger
trunks their length varies. The permanent occlusion of those portions of
the vessel occupied by clot is brought about by the formation of
granulation tissue, and its replacement by cicatricial tissue, so that
the occluded segment of the vessel is represented by a fibrous cord. In
this process the coagulum only plays a passive role by forming a
scaffolding on which the granulation tissue is built up. The ligature
surrounding the vessel, and the elements of the clot, are ultimately
absorbed.

#Repair of Veins.#--The process of repair in veins is the same as that
in arteries, but the thrombosed area may become canalised and the
circulation through the vessel be re-established.


HAEMORRHAGE IN SURGICAL OPERATIONS

The management of the haemorrhage which accompanies an operation includes
(a) preventive measures, and (b) the arrest of the bleeding.

#Prevention of Haemorrhage.#--Whenever possible, haemorrhage should be
controlled by _digital compression_ of the main artery supplying the
limb rather than by a tourniquet. If efficiently applied compression
reduces the immediate loss of blood to a minimum, and the bleeding from
small vessels that follows the removal of the tourniquet is avoided.
Further, the pressure of a tourniquet has been shown to be a material
factor in producing shock.

In selecting a point at which to apply digital compression, it is
essential that the vessel should be lying over a bone which will furnish
the necessary resistance. The common carotid, for example, is pressed
backward and medially against the transverse process (carotid tubercle)
of the sixth cervical vertebra; the temporal against the temporal
process (zygoma) in front of the ear; and the facial against the
mandible at the anterior edge of the masseter.

In the upper extremity, the subclavian is pressed against the first rib
by making pressure downwards and backwards in the hollow above the
clavicle; the axillary and brachial by pressing against the shaft of the
humerus.

In the lower extremity, the femoral is controlled by pressing in a
direction backward and slightly upward against the brim of the pelvis,
midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac
spine.

The abdominal aorta may be compressed against the bodies of the lumbar
vertebrae opposite the umbilicus, if the spine is arched well forwards
over a pillow or sand-bag, or by the method suggested by Macewen, in
which the patient's spine is arched forwards by allowing the lower
extremities and pelvis to hang over the end of the table, while the
assistant, standing on a stool, applies his closed fist over the
abdominal aorta and compresses it against the vertebral column.
Momburg recommends an elastic cord wound round the body between the
iliac crest and the lower border of the ribs, but this procedure has
caused serious damage to the intestine.

When digital compression is not available, the most convenient and
certain means of preventing haemorrhage--say in an amputation--is by the
use of some form of _tourniquet_, such as the elastic tube of Esmarch or
o