h in persons past
middle life is more chronic; it begins insidiously, and many years may
pass before there is pronounced disability. The earliest symptom is
stiffness, especially in the morning after rest, which passes off
temporarily with use of the limb. As time goes on, the range of movement
becomes restricted, and crackings occur. This stage of the disease may
be prolonged indefinitely; if it progresses, stiffness becomes more
pronounced, certain movements are lost, others develop in abnormal
directions, and deformed attitudes add to the disablement. The disease
is compatible with long life, but not with any active occupation, hence
those of the hospital class who suffer from it tend to accumulate in
workhouse infirmaries.

_Hydrops_ is most marked in the knee, and may affect also the adjacent
bursae. As the joint becomes distended with fluid, the ligaments are
stretched, the limb becomes weak and unstable, and the patient complains
of a feeling of weight, of insecurity, and of tiredness. Pain is
occasional and evanescent, and is usually the result of some extra
exertion, or exposure to cold and wet. This form of the disease is
extremely chronic, and may last for an indefinite number of years. It is
to be diagnosed from the other forms of hydrops already considered--the
purely traumatic, the pyogenic, gonorrhoeal, tuberculous, and
syphilitic--and from that associated with Charcot's disease.

_Hypertrophied fringes and pedunculated or loose bodies_ often co-exist
with hydrops, and give rise to characteristic clinical features,
particularly in the knee. The fringes, especially when they assume the
type of the arborescent lipoma, project into the cavity of the joint,
filling up its recesses and distending its capsule so that the joint is
swollen and slightly flexed. Pain is not a prominent feature, and the
patient may walk fairly well. On grasping the joint while it is being
actively flexed and extended, the fringes may be felt moving under the
fingers. Symptoms from impaction of a loose body are exceptional.

[Illustration: FIG. 160.--Arthritis Deformans of Hands, showing
symmetry of lesions, ulnar deviation of fingers, and nodular thickening
at inter-phalangeal joints.]

_The dry form of arthritis deformans_, although specially common in the
knee, is met with in other joints, either as a mon-articular or
poly-articular disease; and it is also met with in the joints of the
spine and of the fingers as well as in the temporo-mandibular joint. In
the joints of the fingers the disease is remarkably symmetrical, and
tends to assume a nodular type (Heberden's nodes) (Fig. 160); in younger
subjects it assumes a more painful and progressive fusiform type
(Fig. 161). In the larger joints the subjective symptoms usually precede

any palpable evidence of disease, the patient complaining of stiffness,
crackings, and aching, aggravated by changes in the weather. The
roughness due to fibrillation of the articular cartilages causes coarse
friction on moving the joint, or, in the knee, on moving the patella on
the condyles of the femur. It may be months or even years before the
lipping and other hypertrophic changes in the ends of the bones are
recognisable, and before the joint assumes the deformed features which
the name of the disease suggests.

The capsular ligament, except in hydrops, is the seat of
connective-tissue overgrowth, and tends to become contracted and rigid.
Intra-articular ligaments, such as the ligamentum teres in the hip, are
usually worn away and disappear. The surrounding muscles undergo
atrophy, tendons become adherent to their sheaths and may be ossified,
and the sheaths of nerves may be involved by the cicatricial changes in
the surrounding tissues.

_The X-ray appearances of arthritis deformans_ necessarily vary with the
type of the disease and the joint affected; in the joints of the fingers
there is a narrowing of the spaces between the articular ends of the
bones as a result of absorption of the articular cartilage, and
rarefaction of the cancellous tissue in the vicinity of the joints; in
the larger joints there is "lipping" of the articular margins,
osteophytes, and other evidence of abnormal ossification in and around
the joint. Eburnation of the articular surfaces is shown by increase in
the density of the shadow of the bone in the areas affected.

[Illustration: FIG. 161.--Arthritis Deformans affecting several
Joints, in a boy aet. 10.

(Dr. Dickson's case.)]

_Treatment._--Treatment is for the most part limited to the relief of
symptoms. On no account should the affected joints be kept at rest by
means of splints or other apparatus. Active movements and exercises of
all kinds are to be persevered with. When pain is a prominent feature,
it may be relieved either by douches of iodine and hot water (tincture
of iodine 1 oz. to the quart), or by the application of lint saturated
with a lotion made up of chloral hydrate, gr. v, glycerin [dram]j, water
[ounce]j, and covered with oil-silk. Str