ve an ellipse of tissue
consisting of the edge of the nail, together with the subjacent matrix
and the redundant nail-fold.

_Subungual exostosis_ is an osteoma growing from the terminal phalanx of
the great toe (Fig. 107). It raises the nail and may be accompanied by
ulceration of the skin over the most prominent part of the growth. The
soft parts, including the nail, should be reflected towards the dorsum
in the form of a flap, the base of the exostosis divided with the
chisel, and the exostosis removed.

_Malignant disease_ in relation to the nails is rare. Squamous
epithelioma and melanotic cancer are the forms met with. Treatment
consists in amputating the digit concerned, and in removing the
associated lymph glands.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND TENDON SHEATHS


INJURIES: _Contusion_; _Sprain_; _Rupture_--Hernia of
    muscle--Dislocation of tendons--Wounds--Avulsion of tendon.
    DISEASES OF MUSCLE AND OF TENDONS: _Atrophy_; _"Muscular
    rheumatism"_--_Fibrositis_; _Contracture_; _Myositis_;
    _Calcification and Ossification_; _Tumours_. DISEASES OF TENDON
    SHEATHS: _Teno-synovitis_.


INJURIES

#Contusion of Muscle.#--Contusion of muscle, which consists in bruising
of its fibres and blood vessels, may be due to violence acting from
without, as in a blow, a kick, or a fall; or from within, as by the
displacement of bone in a fracture or dislocation.

The symptoms are those common to all contusions, and the patient
complains of severe pain on attempting to use the muscle, and maintains
an attitude which relaxes it. If the sheath of the muscle also is torn,
there is subcutaneous ecchymosis, and the accumulation of blood may
result in the formation of a haematoma.

Restoration of function is usually complete; but when the nerve
supplying the muscle is bruised at the same time, as may occur in the
deltoid, wasting and loss of function may be persistent. In exceptional
cases the process of repair may be attended with the formation of bone
in the substance of the muscle, and this may likewise impair its
function.

A contused muscle should be placed at rest and supported by cotton wool
and a bandage; after an interval, massage and appropriate exercises are
employed.

#Sprain and Partial Rupture of Muscle.#--This lesion consists in
overstretching and partial rupture of the fibres of a muscle or its
aponeurosis. It is of common occurrence in athletes and in those who
follow laborious occupations. It may follow upon a single or repeated
effort--especially in those who are out of training. Familiar examples
of muscular sprain are the "labourer's" or "golfer's back," affecting
the latissimus dorsi or the sacrospinalis (erector spinae); the
"tennis-player's elbow," and the "sculler's sprain," affecting the
muscles and ligaments about the elbow; the "angler's elbow," affecting
the common origin of the extensors and supinators; the "sprinter's
sprain," affecting the flexors of the hip; and the "jumper's and
dancer's sprain," affecting the muscles of the calf. The patient
complains of pain, often sudden in onset, of tenderness on pressure, and
of inability to carry out the particular movement by which the sprain
was produced. The disability varies in different cases, and it may
incapacitate the patient from following his occupation or sport for
weeks or, if imperfectly treated, even for months.

The _treatment_ consists in resting the muscle from the particular
effort concerned in the production of the sprain, in gently exercising
it in other directions, in the use of massage, and the induction of
hyperaemia by means of heat. In neglected cases, that is, where the
muscle has not been exercised, the patient shrinks from using it and the
disablement threatens to be permanent; it is sometimes said that
adhesions have formed and that these interfere with the recovery of
function. The condition may be overcome by graduated movements or by a
sudden forcible movement under an anaesthetic. These cases afford a
fruitful field for the bone-setter.

#Rupture of Muscle or Tendon.#--A muscle or a tendon may be ruptured in
its continuity or torn from its attachment to bone. The site of rupture
in individual muscles is remarkably constant, and is usually at the
junction of the muscular and tendinous portions. When rupture takes
place through the belly of a muscle, the ends retract, the amount of
retraction depending on the length of the muscle, and the extent of its
attachment to adjacent aponeurosis or bone. The biceps in the arm, and
the sartorius in the thigh, furnish examples of muscles in which the
separation between the ends may be considerable.

The gap in the muscle becomes filled with blood, and this in time is
replaced by connective tissue, which forms a bond of union between the
ends. When the space is considerable the connecting medium consists of
fibrous tissue, but when the ends are in contact it contains a number of
newly formed muscle fibres. In the process of repair, one or both ends
of the 