wer eyelid
(Fig. 102). It is rare on the trunk or limbs. It commences as a small
flattened nodule in the skin, the epidermis over it being stretched and
shining. The centre becomes depressed, while the margins extend in the
form of an elevated ridge. Sooner or later the epidermis gives way in
the centre, exposing a smooth raw surface devoid of granulations.

[Illustration: FIG. 103.--Rodent Cancer of fifteen years' duration,
which has destroyed the contents of the Orbit.

(Sir Montagu Cotterill's case)]

The margin, while in parts irregular, is typically represented by a
well-defined "rolled" border which consists of the peripheral portion of
the cancer that has not broken down. The central ulcer may temporarily
heal. There is itching but little pain, and the condition progresses
extremely slowly; rodent cancers which have existed for many years are
frequently met with. The disease attacks and destroys every structure
with which it comes in contact, such as the eyelids, the walls of the
nasal cavities, and the bones of the face; hence it may produce the most
hideous deformities (Fig. 103). The patient may succumb to haemorrhage or
to infective complications such as erysipelas or meningitis.

Secondary growths in the lymph glands, while not unknown, are extremely
rare. We have only seen them once--in a case of rodent cancer in the
groin.

_Diagnosis._--Lupus is the disease most often mistaken for rodent
cancer. Lupus usually begins earlier in life, it presents apple-jelly
nodules, and lacks the rounded, elevated border. Syphilitic lesions
progress more rapidly, and also lack the characteristic margin. The
differentiation from squamous epithelioma is of considerable importance,
as the latter affection spreads more rapidly, involves the lymph glands
early, and is much more dangerous to life.

_Treatment._--In rodent cancers of limited size--say less than one inch
in diameter--free excision is the most rapid and certain method of
treatment. The alternative is the application of radium or of the
Rontgen rays, which, although requiring many exposures, results in cure
with the minimum of disfigurement. If the cancer already covers an
extensive area, or has invaded the cavity of the orbit or nose, radium
or X-rays yield the best results. The effect is soon shown by the
ingrowth of healthy epithelium from the surrounding skin, and at the
same time the discharge is lessened. Good results are also reported from
the application of carbon dioxide snow, especially when this follows
upon a course of X-ray treatment.

#Paget's disease# of the nipple is an epithelioma occurring in women
over forty years of age: a similar form of epithelioma is sometimes met
with at the umbilicus or on the genitals.

#Melanotic Cancer.#--Under this head are included all new growths which
contain an excess of melanin pigment. Many of these were formerly
described as melanotic sarcoma. They nearly always originate in a
pigmented mole which has been subjected to irritation. The primary
growth may remain so small that its presence is not even suspected, or
it may increase in size, ulcerate, and fungate. The amount of pigment
varies: when small in amount the growth is brown, when abundant it is a
deep black. The most remarkable feature is the rapidity with which the
disease becomes disseminated along the lymphatics, the first evidence of
which is an enlargement of the lymph glands. As the primary growth is
often situated on the sole of the foot or in the matrix of the nail of
the great toe, the femoral and inguinal glands become enlarged in
succession, forming tumours much larger than the primary growth.
Sometimes the dissemination involves the lymph vessels of the limb,
forming a series of indurated pigmented cords and nodules (Fig. 104).
Lastly, the dissemination may be universal throughout the body, and this
usually occurs at a comparatively early stage. The secondary growths are
deeply pigmented, being usually of a coal-black colour, and melanin
pigment may be present in the urine. When recurrence takes place in or
near the scar left by the operation, the cancer nodules are not
necessarily pigmented.

[Illustration: FIG. 104.--Diffuse Melanotic Cancer of Lymphatics of Skin
secondary to a Growth in the Sole of the Foot.]

To extirpate the disease it is necessary to excise the tumour, with a
zone of healthy skin around it and a somewhat large zone of the
underlying subcutaneous tissue and deep fascia. Hogarth Pringle
recommends that a broad strip of subcutaneous fascia up to and including
the nearest anatomical group of glands should be removed with the tumour
in one continuous piece.

#Secondary Cancer of the Skin.#--Cancer may spread to the skin from a
subjacent growth by direct continuity or by way of the lymphatics. Both
of these processes are so well illustrated in cases of mammary cancer
that they will be described in relation to that disease.

#Sarcoma# of various types is met with in the skin. The fibroma, after
excision, may recur as a