r
the skin may even slough, and the clinical features may therefore come
to simulate closely those of an acute suppurative condition. When the
skin sloughs, an ulcer is formed with altered blood-clot in its floor
like that seen in scurvy, and there is a remarkable absence of any
attempt at healing.

The acute symptoms gradually subside, and the blood is slowly absorbed,
the discoloration of the skin passing through the same series of changes
as occur after an ordinary bruise. The patients seldom manifest the
symptoms of the bloodless state, and the blood is rapidly regenerated.

The _diagnosis_ is easy if the patient or his friends are aware of the
family tendency to haemorrhage and inform the doctor of it, but they are
often sensitive and reticent regarding the fact, and it may only be
elicited after close investigation. From the history it is usually easy
to exclude scurvy and purpura. Repeated haemorrhages into a joint may
result in appearances which closely simulate those of tuberculous
disease. Recent haemorrhages into the cellular tissue often present
clinical features closely resembling those of acute cellulitis or
osteomyelitis. A careful examination, however, may reveal ecchymoses on
other parts of the body which give a clue to the nature of the
condition, and may prevent the disastrous consequences that may follow
incision.

These patients usually succumb sooner or later to haemorrhage, although
they often survive several severe attacks. After middle life the
tendency to bleed appears to diminish.

_Treatment._--As a rule the ordinary means of arresting haemorrhage are
of little avail. From among the numerous means suggested, the following
may be mentioned: The application to the bleeding point of gauze soaked
in a 1 in 1000 solution of adrenalin; prolonged inhalation of oxygen;
freezing the part with a spray of ethyl-chloride; one or more
subcutaneous injections of gelatin--5 ounces of a 2 1/2 per cent.
solution of white gelatin in normal salt solution being injected at a
temperature of about 100 o F.; the injection of pituitary extract. The
application of a pad of gauze soaked in the blood of a normal person
sometimes arrests the bleeding.

To prevent bleeding in haemophilics, intra-venous or subcutaneous
injections of fresh blood serum, taken from the human subject, the
sheep, the dog, or the horse, have proved useful. If fresh serum is not
available, anti-diphtheritic or anti-tetanic serum or trade
preparations, such as hemoplastin, may be employed. We have removed the
appendix and amputated through the thigh in haemophilic subjects without
excessive loss of blood after a course of fresh sheep's serum given by
the mouth over a period of several weeks.

The chloride and lactate of calcium, and extract of thymus gland have
been employed to increase the coagulability of the blood. The patient
should drink large quantities of milk, which also increases the
coagulability of the blood. Monro has observed remarkable results from
the hypodermic injection of emetin hydrochloride in  1/2-grain doses.


THROMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM

The processes known as thrombosis and embolism are so intimately
associated with the diseases of blood vessels that it is convenient to
define these terms in the first instance.

#Thrombosis.#--The term _thrombus_ is applied to a clot of blood formed
in the interior of the heart or of a blood vessel, and the process by
which such a clot forms is known as _thrombosis_. It would appear that
slowing or stagnation of the blood-stream, and interference with the
integrity of the lining membrane of the vessel wall, are the most
important factors determining the formation of the clot. Alterations in
the blood itself, such as occur, for example, in certain toxaemias, also
favour coagulation. When the thrombus is formed slowly, it consists of
white blood cells with a small proportion of fibrin, and, being
deposited in successive layers, has a distinctly laminated appearance on
section. It is known as a _white thrombus_ or laminated clot, and is
often met with in the sac of an aneurysm (Fig. 72). When rapidly formed
in a vessel in which the blood is almost stagnant--as, for example, in a
pouched varicose vein--the blood coagulates _en masse_, and the clot
consists of all the elements of the blood, constituting a _red thrombus_
(Fig. 66). Sometimes the thrombus is _mixed_--a red thrombus being
deposited on a white one, it may be in alternate layers.

When aseptic, a thrombus may become detached and be carried off in the
blood-stream as an embolus; it may become organised; or it may
degenerate and undergo calcification. Occasionally a small thrombus
situated behind a valve in a varicose vein or in the terminal end of a
dilated vein--for example in a pile--undergoes calcification, and is
then spoken of as a _phlebolith_; it gives a shadow with the X-rays.

When infected with pyogenic bacteria, the thrombus becomes converted
into pus and a localised abscess forms; or portions of the thrombus may