sts till the wound heals, its
duration depending upon the size, depth, and asepticity of the raw area.
The chief causes of death during this period are toxin absorption in any
of its forms; waxy disease of the liver, kidneys, or intestine; less
commonly erysipelas, tetanus, or other diseases due to infection by
specific organisms. We have seen nothing to substantiate the belief that
duodenal ulcers are liable to perforate during the third period.

The _prognosis_ in burns depends on (1) the superficial extent, and, to
a much less degree, the depth of the injury. When more than one-third of
the entire surface of the body is involved, even in a mild degree, the
prognosis is grave. (2) The situation of the burn is important. Burns
over the serous cavities--abdomen, thorax, or skull--are, other things
being equal, much more dangerous than burns of the limbs. The risk of
oedema of the glottis in burns about the neck and mouth has already been
referred to. (3) Children are more liable to succumb to shock during the
early period, but withstand prolonged suppuration better than adults.
(4) When the patient survives the shock, the presence or absence of
infection is the all-important factor in prognosis.

#Treatment.#--The _general treatment_ consists in combating the shock.
When pain is severe, morphin must be injected.

_Local Treatment._--The local treatment must be carried out on
antiseptic lines, a general anaesthetic being administered, if necessary,
to enable the purification to be carried out thoroughly. After carefully
removing the clothing, the whole of the burned area is gently, but
thoroughly, cleansed with peroxide of hydrogen or warm boracic lotion,
followed by sterilised saline solution. As pyogenic bacteria are
invariably found in the blisters of burns, these must be opened and the
raised epithelium removed.

The dressings subsequently applied should meet the following
indications: the relief of pain; the prevention of sepsis; and the
promotion of cicatrisation.

An application which satisfactorily fulfils these requirements is
_picric acid_. Pads of lint or gauze are lightly wrung out of a solution
made up of picric acid, 1 1/2 drams; absolute alcohol, 3 ounces;
distilled water, 40 ounces, and applied over the whole of the reddened
area. These are covered with antiseptic wool, _without_ any waterproof
covering, and retained in position by a many-tailed bandage. The
dressing should be changed once or twice a week, under the guidance of
the temperature chart, any portion of the original dressing which
remains perfectly dry being left undisturbed. The value of a general
anaesthetic in dressing extensive burns, especially in children, can
scarcely be overestimated.

Picric acid yields its best results in superficial burns, and it is
useful as _a primary dressing_ in all. As soon as the sloughs separate
and a granulating surface forms, the ordinary treatment for a healing
sore is instituted. Any slough under which pus has collected should be
cut away with scissors to permit of free drainage.

An occlusive dressing of melted _paraffin_ has also been employed. A
useful preparation consists of: Paraffin molle 25 per cent., paraffin
durum 67 per cent., olive oil 5 per cent., oil of eucalyptus 2 per
cent., and beta-naphthol 1/4 per cent. It has a melting point of 48 o C.
It is also known as _Ambrine_ and _Burnol_. After the burned area has
been cleansed and thoroughly dried, it is sponged or painted with the
melted paraffin, and before solidification takes place a layer of
sterilised gauze is applied and covered with a second coating of
paraffin. Further coats of paraffin are applied every other day to
prevent the gauze sticking to the skin.

An alternative method of treating extensive burns is by immersing the
part, or even the whole body when the trunk is affected, in a bath of
boracic lotion kept at the body temperature, the lotion being frequently
renewed.

If a burn is already infected when first seen, it is to be treated on
the same principles as govern the treatment of other infected wounds.

All moist or greasy applications, such as Carron oil, carbolic oil and
ointments, and all substances like collodion and dry powders, which
retain discharges, entirely fail to meet the indications for the
rational treatment of burns, and should be abandoned.

Skin-grafting is of great value in hastening healing after extensive
burns, and in preventing cicatricial contraction. The _deformities_
which are so liable to develop from contraction of the cicatrices are
treated on general principles. In the region of the face, neck, and
flexures of joints (Fig. 63), where they are most marked, the contracted
bands may be divided and the parts stretched, the raw surface left being
covered by Thiersch grafts or by flaps of skin raised from adjacent
surfaces or from other parts of the body (Fig. 1).


INJURIES PRODUCED BY ELECTRICITY

#Injuries produced by Exposure to X-Rays and Radium.#--In the routine
treatment of disease b