_thrombotic form_ is almost invariably met
with in the lower extremity, and usually occurs in those who are
debilitated and anaemic, and who are confined to bed for prolonged
periods--for example, during the treatment of fractures of the leg or
pelvis, or after such operations as herniotomy, prostatectomy, or
appendectomy.

_Clinical Features._--The most typical example of this form of phlebitis
is that so frequently met with in the great saphena vein, especially
when it is varicose. The onset of the attack is indicated by a sudden
pain in the lower limb--sometimes below, sometimes above the knee. This
initial pain may be associated with shivering or even with a rigor, and
the temperature usually rises one or two degrees. There is swelling and
tenderness along the line of the affected vein, and the skin over it is
a dull-red or purple colour. The swollen vein may be felt as a firm
cord, with bead-like enlargements in the position of the valves. The
patient experiences a feeling of stiffness and tightness throughout the
limb. There is often oedema of the leg and foot, especially when the limb
is in the dependent position. The acute symptoms pass off in a few days,
but the swelling and tenderness of the vein and the oedema of the limb
may last for many weeks.

When the deep veins--iliac, femoral, popliteal--are involved, there is
great swelling of the whole limb, which is of a firm almost "wooden"
consistence, and of a pale-white colour; the oedema may be so great that
it is impossible to feel the affected vein until the swelling has
subsided. This is most often seen in puerperal women, and is known as
_phlegmasia alba dolens_.

_Treatment._--The patient must be placed at absolute rest, with the foot
of the bed raised on blocks 10 or 12 inches high, and the limb
immobilised by sand-bags or splints. It is necessary to avoid handling
the parts, lest the clot be displaced and embolism occur. To avoid
frequent movement of the limb, the necessary dressings should be kept in
position by means of a many-tailed rather than a roller bandage.

To relieve the pain, warm fomentations or lead and opium lotion should
be applied. Later, ichthyol-glycerin, or glycerin and belladonna, may be
substituted.

When, at the end of three weeks, the danger of embolism is past,
douching and gentle massage may be employed to disperse the oedema; and
when the patient gets up he should wear a supporting elastic bandage.

The _infective_ form usually begins as a peri-phlebitis arising in
connection with some focus of infection in the adjacent tissues. The
elements of the vessel wall are destroyed by suppuration, and the
thrombus in its lumen becomes infected with pyogenic bacteria and
undergoes softening.

_Occlusion of the inferior vena cava_ as a result of infective
thrombosis is a well-known condition, the thrombosis extending into the
main trunk from some of its tributaries, either from the femoral or
iliac veins below or from the hepatic veins above.

Portions of the softened thrombus are liable to become detached and to
enter the circulating blood, in which they are carried as emboli. These
may lodge in distant parts, and give rise to secondary foci of
suppuration--pyaemic abscesses.

_Clinical Features._--Infective phlebitis is most frequently met with in
the transverse sinus as a sequel to chronic suppuration in the mastoid
antrum and middle ear. It also occurs in relation to the peripheral
veins, but in these it can seldom be recognised as a separate entity,
being merged in the general infective process from which it takes
origin. Its occurrence may be inferred, if in the course of a
suppurative lesion there is a sudden rise of temperature, with pain,
redness, and swelling along the line of a venous trunk, and a rapidly
developed oedema of the limb, with pitting of the skin on pressure. In
rare cases a localised abscess forms in the vein and points towards the
surface.

_Treatment._--Attention must be directed towards the condition with
which the phlebitis is associated. Ligation of the vein on the cardiac
side of the thrombus with a view to preventing embolism is seldom
feasible in the peripheral veins, although, as will be pointed out
later, the jugular vein is ligated with this object in cases of
phlebitis of the transverse sinus.


VARIX--VARICOSE VEINS

The term varix is applied to a condition in which veins are so altered
in structure that they remain permanently dilated, and are at the same
time lengthened and tortuous. Two types are met with: one in which
dilatation of a large superficial vein and its tributaries is the most
obvious feature; the other, in which bunches of distended and tortuous
vessels develop at one or more points in the course of a vein, a
condition to which Virchow applied the term _angioma racemosum venosum_.
The two types may occur in combination.

Any vein in the body may become varicose, but the condition is rare
except in the veins of the lower extremity, in the veins of the
spermatic cord (varico