 as well as the raised horny layer of the epidermis should be
removed. A deeper and more troublesome onychia results from infection at
the nail-fold; the infection spreads slowly beneath the fold until it
reaches the matrix, and a drop or two of pus forms beneath the nail,
usually in the region of the lunule. This affection entails a
disability of the finger which may last for weeks unless it is properly
treated. Treatment by hyperaemia, using a suction bell, should first be
tried, and, failing improvement, the nail-fold and lunule should be
frozen, and a considerable portion removed with the knife; if only a
small portion of the nail is removed, the opening is blocked by
granulations springing from the matrix. A new nail is formed, but it is
liable to be misshapen.

_Tuberculous onychia_ is met with in children and adolescents. It
appears as a livid or red swelling at the root of the nail and spreading
around its margins. The epidermis, which is thin and shiny, gives way,
and the nail is usually shed.

[Illustration: FIG. 107.--Subungual Exostosis growing from Distal
Phalanx of Great Toe, showing Ulceration of Skin and Displacement of
Nail.

_a._ Surface view.   _b._ On section.]

_Syphilitic_ affections of the nails assume various aspects. A primary
chancre at the edge of the nail may be mistaken for a whitlow,
especially if it is attended with much pain. Other forms of onychia
occur during secondary syphilis simultaneously with the skin eruptions,
and may prove obstinate and lead to shedding of the nails. They also
occur in inherited syphilis. In addition to general treatment, an
ointment containing 5 per cent. of oleate of mercury should be applied
locally.

_Ingrowing Toe-nail._--This is more accurately described as an
overgrowth of the soft tissues along the edge of the nail. It is most
frequently met with in the great toe in young adults with flat-foot
whose feet perspire freely, who wear ill-fitting shoes, and who cut
their toe-nails carelessly or tear them with their fingers. Where the
soft tissues are pressed against the edge of the nail, the skin gives
way and there is the formation of exuberant granulations and of
discharge which is sometimes foetid. The affection is a painful one and
may unfit the patient for work. In mild cases the condition may be
remedied by getting rid of contributing causes and by disinfecting the
skin and nail; the nail is cut evenly, and the groove between it and the
skin packed with an antiseptic dusting-powder, such as boracic acid. In
more severe cases it may be necessary to remove an ellipse of tissue
consisting of the edge of the nail, together with the subjacent matrix
and the redundant nail-fold.

_Subungual exostosis_ is an osteoma growing from the terminal phalanx of
the great toe (Fig. 107). It raises the nail and may be accompanied by
ulceration of the skin over the most prominent part of the growth. The
soft parts, including the nail, should be reflected towards the dorsum
in the form of a flap, the base of the exostosis divided with the
chisel, and the exostosis removed.

_Malignant disease_ in relation to the nails is rare. Squamous
epithelioma and melanotic cancer are the forms met with. Treatment
consists in amputating the digit concerned, and in removing the
associated lymph glands.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND TENDON SHEATHS


INJURIES: _Contusion_; _Sprain_; _Rupture_--Hernia of
    muscle--Dislocation of tendons--Wounds--Avulsion of tendon.
    DISEASES OF MUSCLE AND OF TENDONS: _Atrophy_; _"Muscular
    rheumatism"_--_Fibrositis_; _Contracture_; _Myositis_;
    _Calcification and Ossification_; _Tumours_. DISEASES OF TENDON
    SHEATHS: _Teno-synovitis_.


INJURIES

#Contusion of Muscle.#--Contusion of muscle, which consists in bruising
of its fibres and blood vessels, may be due to violence acting from
without, as in a blow, a kick, or a fall; or from within, as by the
displacement of bone in a fracture or dislocation.

The symptoms are those common to all contusions, and the patient
complains of severe pain on attempting to use the muscle, and maintains
an attitude which relaxes it. If the sheath of the muscle also is torn,
there is subcutaneous ecchymosis, and the accumulation of blood may
result in the formation of a haematoma.

Restoration of function is usually complete; but when the nerve
supplying the muscle is bruised at the same time, as may occur in the
deltoid, wasting and loss of function may be persistent. In exceptional
cases the process of repair may be attended with the formation of bone
in the substance of the muscle, and this may likewise impair its
function.

A contused muscle should be placed at rest and supported by cotton wool
and a bandage; after an interval, massage and appropriate exercises are
employed.

#Sprain and Partial Rupture of Muscle.#--This lesion consists in
overstretching and partial rupture of the fibres of a muscle or its
aponeurosis. It is of common occurrence in athletes and in those who
follo