 of vascular fibrous
tissue with a covering of epithelium resembling that of the surface from
which the tumour grows. In the papillomas of the skin--commonly known as
_warts_--the covering consists of epidermis; in those growing from
mucous surfaces it consists of the epithelium covering the mucous
membrane. When the surface epithelium projects as filiform processes,
the tumour is called a _villous papilloma_, the best-known example of
which is met with in the urinary bladder. Papillomatous growths are
also met with in the larynx, in the ducts of the breast, and in the
interior of certain cystic tumours of the breast and of the ovary.
Although papillomas are primarily innocent, they may become the
starting-point of cancer, especially in persons past middle life and if
the papilloma has been subjected to irritation and has ulcerated. The
clinical features and treatment of the various forms of papilloma are
considered with the individual tissues and organs.

#Adenoma.#--An adenoma is a tumour constructed on the type of, and
growing in connection with, a secreting gland. In the substance of such
glands as the mamma, parotid, thyreoid, and prostate, adenomas are met
with as encapsulated tumours. When they originate from the glands of the
skin or of a mucous membrane, they tend to project from the surface, and
form pedunculated tumours or polypi.

Adenomas may be single or multiple, and they vary greatly in size. The
tumour is seldom composed entirely of gland tissue; it usually contains
a considerable proportion of fibrous tissue, and is then called a
_fibro-adenoma_. When it contains myxomatous tissue it is called a
_myxo-adenoma_, and when the gland spaces of the tumour become distended
with accumulated secretion, a _cystic adenoma_, the best examples of
which are met with in the mamma and ovary. A characteristic feature of
the cystic variety is the tendency the tumour tissue exhibits to project
into the interior of the cysts, constituting what are known as
_intracystic growths_. They are essentially innocent, but intracystic
growths, especially in the mamma of women over fifty, should be regarded
with suspicion and therefore should be removed on radical lines.
Transition forms between adenoma and carcinoma are also met with in the
rectum and large intestine, and these should be treated on the same
lines as cancer.


CARCINOMA OR CANCER

A cancer is a malignant tumour which originates in epithelium. The
cancer cells are derived by proliferation from already existing
epithelium, and they invade the sub-epithelial connective tissue in the
form of simple or branching columns. These columns are enclosed in
spaces--termed alveoli--which are probably dilated lymph spaces, and
which communicate freely with the lymph vessels. The cells composing the
columns and filling the alveoli vary with the character of the
epithelium in which the cancer originates. The malignancy of cancer
depends on the tendency which the epithelium has of invading the tissues
in its neighbourhood, and on the capacity of the cells, when
transported elsewhere by the lymph or blood-stream, of giving rise to
secondary growths.

Cancer may arise on any surface covered by epithelium or in any of the
secreting glands of the body, but it is much more common in some
situations than in others. It is frequently met with, for example, in
the skin, in the stomach and large intestine, in the breast, the uterus,
and the external genitals; less frequently in the gall-bladder, larynx,
thyreoid, prostate, and urinary bladder.

Tissues appear to be most liable to cancer when, having attained
maturity, they enter upon the phase of decadence or involution, and this
phase is reached by different tissues at different periods. It is not so
much, therefore, the age of the person in whom it occurs, as the age of
the tissue in which it arises, that determines the maximum incidence of
cancer. Cancer of the stomach appears and attains a maximum frequency
earlier than cancer of the skin; cancer of the uterus and mamma is more
frequent towards the decline of reproductive activity than in the later
years of life; rectal cancer is not infrequently met with during the
second and third decades. There is evidence that the irritation caused
by alcohol and tobacco plays a part in the causation of cancer, in the
fact that a large proportion of those who become the subjects of cancer
of the mouth are excessive drinkers and smokers.

A cancer may appear as a papillary growth on a mucous or a skin surface,
as a nodule in the substance of an organ, or as a diffuse thickening of
a tubular organ such as the stomach or intestine. The absence of
definition in cancerous tumours explains the difficulty of completely
removing them by surgical measures, and has led to the practice of
complete extirpation of cancerous organs wherever this is possible. The
boundaries of the affected organ, moreover, are frequently transgressed
by the disease, and the epithelial infiltration implicates the
surrou