 lymph vessels,
and these present features closely resembling the tropical variety, and
usually follow upon repeated attacks of lymphangitis or erysipelas.

The part affected is enormously increased in size, and causes
inconvenience from its bulk and weight. In contrast to ordinary dropsy,
there is no pitting on pressure, and the swelling does not disappear on
elevation of the limb. The skin becomes rough and warty, and may hang
down in pendulous folds. Blisters form on the surface and yield an
abundant exudate of clear lymph. From neglect of cleanliness, the skin
becomes the seat of eczema or even of ulceration attended with foul
discharge.

Samson Handley has sought to replace the blocked lymph vessels by
burying in the subcutaneous tissue of the swollen part a number of stout
silk threads--_lymphangioplasty_. By their capillary action they drain
the lymph to a healthy region above, and thus enable it to enter the
circulation. It has been more successful in the face and upper limb than
in the lower extremity. If the tissues are infected with pus organisms,
a course of vaccines should precede the operation.

[Illustration: FIG. 97.--Elephantiasis in a woman aet. 45.]

A similar type of elephantiasis may occur after extirpation of the lymph
glands in the axilla or groin; in the leg in long-standing standing
varix and phlebitis with chronic ulcer; in the arm as a result of
extensive cancerous disease of the lymphatics in the axilla secondarily
to cancer of the breast; and in extensive tuberculous disease of the
lymphatics. The last-named is chiefly observed in the lower limb in
young adult women, and from its following upon lupus of the toes or foot
it has been called _lupus elephantiasis_. The tuberculous infection
spreads slowly up the limb by way of the lymph vessels, and as these are
obliterated the skin and cellular tissues become hypertrophied, and the
surface is studded over with fungating tuberculous masses of a livid
blue colour. As the more severe forms of the disease may prove dangerous
to life by pyogenic complications inducing gangrene of the limb, the
question of amputation may have to be considered.

[Illustration: FIG. 98.--Elephantiasis of Penis and Scrotum in native of
Demerara.

(Mr. Annandale's case.)]

Belonging to this group also is a form of _congenital elephantiasis_
resulting from the circular constriction of a limb _in utero_ by
amniotic bands.

_Elephantiasis occurring apart from lymphatic or venous obstruction_ is
illustrated by _elephantiasis nervorum_, in which there is an overgrowth
of the skin and cellular tissue of an extremity in association with
neuro-fibromatosis of the cutaneous nerves (Fig. 89); and by
_elephantiasis Graecorum_--a form of leprosy in which the skin of the
face becomes the seat of tumour-like masses consisting of leprous
nodules. It is also illustrated by _elephantiasis involving the scrotum_
as a result of prolonged irritation by the urine in cases in which the
penis has been amputated and the urine has infiltrated the scrotal
tissues over a period of years.

#Sebaceous Cysts.#--Atheromatous cysts or wens are formed in relation to
the sebaceous glands and hair follicles. They are commonly met with in
adults, on the scalp (Fig. 99), face, neck, back, and external genitals.
Sometimes they are multiple, and they may be met with in several members
of the same family. They are smooth, rounded, or discoid cysts, varying
in size from a split-pea to a Tangerine orange. In consistence they are
firm and elastic, or fluctuating, and are incorporated with the
overlying skin, but movable on the deeper structures. The orifice of the
partly blocked sebaceous follicle is sometimes visible, and the contents
of the cyst can be squeezed through the opening. The wall of the cyst is
composed of a connective-tissue capsule lined by stratified squamous
epithelium. The contents consist of accumulated epithelial cells, and
are at first dry and pearly white in appearance, but as a result of
fatty degeneration they break down into a greyish-yellow pultaceous and
semi-fluid material having a peculiar stale odour. It is probable that
the decomposition of the contents is the result of the presence of
bacteria, and that from the surgical point of view they should be
regarded as infective. A sebaceous cyst may remain indefinitely without
change, or may slowly increase in size, the skin over it becoming
stretched and closely adherent to the cyst wall as a result of friction
and pressure. The contents may ooze from the orifice of the duct and dry
on the skin surface, leading to the formation of a sebaceous horn
(Fig. 100). As a result of injury the cyst may undergo sudden
enlargement from haemorrhage into its interior.

Recurrent attacks of inflammation frequently occur, especially in wens
of the face and scalp. Suppuration may ensue and be followed by cure of
the cyst, or an offensive fungating ulcer forms which may be mistaken
for epithelioma. True cancerous transformation is rare.

Wen