his procedure must be carried out with caution, in view
of such risks as fracture of the bone--which is often rarefied--or
separation of an epiphysis. There is also the risk of fat embolism, and
of re-starting the original disease. The giving way of adhesions may be
attended with an audible crack; and the procedure is often followed by
considerable pain and effusion into the joint, which necessitate rest
for some days before exercises and manipulations can be resumed.

_Operative treatment_ may be called for in cases in which the bones are
closely bound to one another by fibrous or by osseous tissue.

_Arthrolysis_, which consists in opening the joint and dividing the
fibrous adhesions, is almost inevitably followed by their reunion.

_Arthroplasty._--Murphy of Chicago devised this operation for restoring
movement to an ankylosed joint. It consists in transplanting between the
bones a flap of fat-bearing tissue, from which a bursal cavity lined
with endothelium and containing a fluid rich in mucin is ultimately
formed.

Arthroplasty is most successful in ankylosis following upon injury; when
the ankylosis results from some infective condition such as tuberculosis
or gonorrhoea, it is liable to result in failure either because of a
fresh outbreak of the infection or because the ankylosis recurs.

When arthroplasty is impracticable, and a movable joint is desired--for
example at the elbow--a considerable amount of bone, and it may be also
of periosteum and capsular ligament, is resected to allow of the
formation of a false joint.

When bony ankylosis has occurred with the joint in an undesirable
attitude--for example flexion at the hip or knee--it can sometimes be
remedied by osteotomy or by a wedge-shaped resection of the bone, with
or without such additional division of the contracted soft parts as will
permit of the limb being placed in the attitude desired.

Bony ankylosis of the joints of a finger, whether the result of injury
or disease, is difficult to remedy by any operative procedure, for while
it is possible to restore mobility, the new joint is apt to be
flail-like.

_Locking._--A joint is said to lock when its movements are abruptly
arrested by the coming together of bony outgrowths around the joint. It
is best illustrated in arthritis deformans of the hip in which new bone
formed round the rim of the acetabulum mechanically arrests the
excursions of the head of the femur. The new bone, which limits the
movements, is readily demonstrated in skiagrams; it may be removed by
operative means. Locking of joints is more often met with as a result of
injuries, especially in fractures occurring in the region of the elbow.
In certain injuries of the semilunar menisci of the knee, also, the
joint is liable to a variety of locking, which differs, however, in many
respects from that described above.

#Errors of Development.#--These include congenital dislocations and
other deformities of intra-uterine origin, such as abnormal laxity of
joints, absence, displacement, or defective growth of one or other of
the essential constituents of a joint. The more important of these are
described along with the surgery of the Extremities.


DISEASES OF JOINTS

#Bacterial Diseases.#--In most bacterial diseases the organisms are
carried to the joint in the blood-stream, and they lodge either in the
synovial membrane or in one of the bones, whence the disease
subsequently spreads to the other structures of the joint. Organisms may
also be introduced through accidental wounds. It has been shown
experimentally that joints are among the most susceptible parts of the
body to infection, and this would appear to be due to the viscid
character of the synovial fluid, which protects organisms from
bactericidal agents in the tissues and fluids.


PYOGENIC DISEASES

The commoner pyogenic diseases are the result of infection of one or
other of the joint structures with _staphylococci_ or _streptococci_,
which may be demonstrated in the exudate in the joint and in the
substance of the synovial membrane. The mode of infection is the same as
in the pyogenic diseases of bone, the metastasis occurring most
frequently from the mucous membrane of the pharynx (J. B. Murphy). The
localisation of the infection in a particular joint is determined by
injury, exposure to cold, antecedent disease of the joint, or other
factors, the nature of which is not always apparent.

The effects on the joint vary in severity. In the milder forms, there is
engorgement and infiltration of the synovial membrane, and an effusion
into the cavity of the joint of serous fluid mixed with flakes of
fibrin--_serous synovitis_. In more severe infections the exudate
consists of pus mixed with fibrin, and, it may be, red blood
corpuscles--_purulent_ or _suppurative synovitis_; the synovial membrane
and the ligaments are softened, and the surface of the membrane presents
granulations resembling those on an ulcer; foci of suppuration may
develop in the peri-articular cellular 