er's" or "tailor's bottom." It may form a fluctuating swelling of
great size, projecting on the buttock and extending down the thigh, and
causing great inconvenience in sitting (Fig. 116). It sometimes contains
a number of loose bodies.

There are two bursae over the _great trochanter_, one superficial to, the
other beneath the aponeurosis of the gluteus maximus; the latter is not
infrequently infected by tuberculous disease that has spread from the
trochanter.

The bursa _between the psoas muscle and the capsule of the hip-joint_
may be the seat of tuberculous disease, and give rise to clinical
features not unlike those of disease of the hip-joint. The limb is
flexed, abducted and rotated out; there is a swelling in the upper part
of Scarpa's triangle, but the movements are not restricted in directions
which do not entail putting the ilio-psoas muscle on the stretch.

Cartilaginous and partly ossified loose bodies may accumulate in the
ilio-psoas bursa and distend it, both in a downward direction towards
the hip-joint, with which it communicates, and upwards, projecting
towards the abdomen.

The bursa beneath the quadriceps extensor--_subcrural bursa_--usually
communicates with the knee-joint and shares in its diseases. When shut
off from the joint it may suffer independently, and when distended with
fluid forms a horse-shoe swelling above the patella.

In front of the patella and its ligament is the _prepatellar bursa_,
which may have one, two, or three compartments, usually communicating
with one another. It is the seat of the affection known as "housemaid's
knee," which is very common and is sometimes bilateral, and, less
frequently, of tuberculous disease which usually originates in the
patella.

[Illustration: FIG. 116.--Great Enlargement of the Ischial Bursa.

(Mr. Scot-Skirving's case.)]

The bursa _between the ligamentum patellae and the tibia_ is rarely the
seat of disease. When it is, there is pain and tenderness referred to
the ligament, the patient is unable to extend the limb completely, the
tuberosity of the tibia is apparently enlarged, and there is a
fluctuating swelling on either side of the ligament, most marked in the
extended position of the limb.

Of the numerous bursae in the popliteal space, that _between the
semi-membranosus and the medial head of the gastrocnemius_ is most
frequently the seat of disease, which is usually of the nature of a
simple hydrops, forming a fluctuating egg-or sausage-shaped swelling at
the medial side of the popliteal space. It is flaccid in the flexed, and
tense in the extended position. As a rule it causes little
inconvenience, and may be left alone. Otherwise it should be dissected
out, and if, as is frequently the case, there is a communication with
the knee-joint, this should be closed with sutures.

[Illustration: FIG. 117.--Gouty Disease of Bursae in a tailor. The bursal
tumours were almost entirely composed of urate of soda. (Cf. Fig. 114.)]

An adventitious bursa may form over the _lateral malleolus_, especially
in tailors, giving rise to the condition known as "tailor's ankle"
(Fig. 117).

The bursa _between the tendo-calcaneus (Achillis) and the upper part of
the calcaneus_ may become inflamed--especially as a result of
post-scarlatinal rheumatism or gonorrhoea. The affection is known as
Achillo-bursitis. There is severe pain in the region of the insertion of
the tendo-calcaneus, the movements at the ankle-joint are restricted,
and the patient may be unable to walk. There is a tender swelling on
either side of the tendon. When, in spite of palliative treatment, the
affection persists or relapses, it is best to excise the bursa. The
tendo-calcaneus is detached from the calcaneus, the bursa dissected out,
and the tendon replaced. If there is a bony projection from the
calcaneus, it should be shaved off with the chisel.

The bursa that is sometimes met with on the under aspect of the
calcaneus--_the subcalcanean bursa_--when inflamed, gives rise to pain
and tenderness in the sole of the foot. This affection may be associated
with a spinous projection from the bone, which is capable of being
recognised in a skiagram. The soft parts of the heel are turned forwards
as a flap, the bursa is dissected out, and the projection of bone, if
present, is removed.

The enlargement of adventitious bursae over the head of the first
metatarsal in hallux valgus; over the tarsus, metatarsus, and digits in
the different forms of club-foot; over the angular projection in Pott's
disease of the spine; over the end of the bone in amputation stumps, and
over hard tumours such as chondroma and osteoma, are described
elsewhere.




CHAPTER XX

DISEASES OF BONE


Anatomy and physiology--Regeneration of bone--Transplantation of bone.
    DISEASES OF BONE--Definition of terms--Pyogenic diseases:
    _Acute osteomyelitis and periostitis_; _Chronic and relapsing
    osteomyelitis_; _Abscess of bone_--Tuberculous disease--Syphilitic
    disease--Hydatids; Rickets; Osteomalacia--Os