e
circulation through the vessel be re-established.


HAEMORRHAGE IN SURGICAL OPERATIONS

The management of the haemorrhage which accompanies an operation includes
(a) preventive measures, and (b) the arrest of the bleeding.

#Prevention of Haemorrhage.#--Whenever possible, haemorrhage should be
controlled by _digital compression_ of the main artery supplying the
limb rather than by a tourniquet. If efficiently applied compression
reduces the immediate loss of blood to a minimum, and the bleeding from
small vessels that follows the removal of the tourniquet is avoided.
Further, the pressure of a tourniquet has been shown to be a material
factor in producing shock.

In selecting a point at which to apply digital compression, it is
essential that the vessel should be lying over a bone which will furnish
the necessary resistance. The common carotid, for example, is pressed
backward and medially against the transverse process (carotid tubercle)
of the sixth cervical vertebra; the temporal against the temporal
process (zygoma) in front of the ear; and the facial against the
mandible at the anterior edge of the masseter.

In the upper extremity, the subclavian is pressed against the first rib
by making pressure downwards and backwards in the hollow above the
clavicle; the axillary and brachial by pressing against the shaft of the
humerus.

In the lower extremity, the femoral is controlled by pressing in a
direction backward and slightly upward against the brim of the pelvis,
midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac
spine.

The abdominal aorta may be compressed against the bodies of the lumbar
vertebrae opposite the umbilicus, if the spine is arched well forwards
over a pillow or sand-bag, or by the method suggested by Macewen, in
which the patient's spine is arched forwards by allowing the lower
extremities and pelvis to hang over the end of the table, while the
assistant, standing on a stool, applies his closed fist over the
abdominal aorta and compresses it against the vertebral column.
Momburg recommends an elastic cord wound round the body between the
iliac crest and the lower border of the ribs, but this procedure has
caused serious damage to the intestine.

When digital compression is not available, the most convenient and
certain means of preventing haemorrhage--say in an amputation--is by the
use of some form of _tourniquet_, such as the elastic tube of Esmarch or
of Foulis, or an elastic bandage, or the screw tourniquet of Petit.
Before applying any of these it is advisable to empty the limb of blood.
This is best done after the manner suggested by Lister: the limb is held
vertical for three or four minutes; the veins are thus emptied by
gravitation, and they collapse, and as a physiological result of this
the arteries reflexly contract, so that the quantity of blood entering
the limb is reduced to a minimum. With the limb still elevated the
tourniquet is firmly applied, a part being selected where the vessel can
be pressed directly against a bone, and where there is no risk of
exerting injurious pressure on the nerve-trunks. The tourniquet should
be applied over several layers of gauze or lint to protect the skin, and
the first turn of the tourniquet must be rapidly and tightly applied to
arrest completely the arterial flow, otherwise the veins only are
obstructed and the limb becomes congested. In the lower extremity the
best place to apply a tourniquet is the middle third of the thigh; in
the upper extremity, in the middle of the arm. A tourniquet should never
be applied tighter or left on longer than is absolutely necessary.

The screw tourniquet of Petit is to be preferred when it is desired to
intermit the flow through the main artery as in operations for aneurysm.

When a tourniquet cannot conveniently be applied, or when its presence
interferes with the carrying out of the operation--as, for example, in
amputations at the hip or shoulder--the haemorrhage may be controlled by
preliminary ligation of the main artery above the seat of operation--for
instance, the external iliac or the subclavian. For such contingencies
also the steel skewers used by Spence and Wyeth, or a special clamp or
forceps, such as that suggested by Lynn Thomas, may be employed. In the
case of vessels which it is undesirable to occlude permanently, such as
the common carotid, the temporary application of a ligature or clamp is
useful.

#Arrest of Haemorrhage.#--_Ligature._--This is the best means of securing
the larger vessels. The divided vessel having been caught with forceps
as near to its cut end as possible, a ligature of catgut or silk is tied
round it. When there is difficulty in applying a ligature securely, for
example in a dense tissue like the scalp or periosteum, or in a friable
tissue like the thyreoid gland or the mesentery, a stitch should be
passed so as to surround the bleeding vessel a short distance from its
end, in this way ensuring a better hold and preventing the ligature from
s