mminence of
rupture, or it may be again postponed.

#Differential Diagnosis.#--The diagnosis is to be made from other
pulsatile swellings. Pulsation is sometimes transmitted from a large
artery to a tumour, a mass of enlarged lymph glands, or an inflammatory
swelling which lies in its vicinity, but the pulsation is not
expansile--a most important point in differential diagnosis. Such
swellings may, by appropriate manipulation, be moved from the artery and
the pulsation ceases, and compression of the artery on the cardiac side
of the swelling, although it arrests the pulsation, does not produce any
diminution in the size or tension of the swelling, and when the pressure
is removed the pulsation is restored immediately.

Fluid swellings overlying an artery, such as cysts, abscesses, or
enlarged bursae, may closely simulate aneurysm. An apparent expansion may
accompany the pulsation, but careful examination usually enables this to
be distinguished from the true expansion of an aneurysm. Compression of
the artery makes no difference in the size or tension of the swelling.

Vascular tumours, such as sarcoma and goitre, may yield an expansile
pulsation and a soft, whifling bruit, but they differ from an aneurysm
in that they are not diminished in size by compression of the main
artery, nor can they be emptied by pressure.

The exaggerated pulsation sometimes observed in the abdominal aorta, the
"pulsating aorta" seen in women, should not be mistaken for aneurysm.

#Prognosis.#--When _natural cure_ occurs it is usually brought about by
the formation of laminated clot, which gradually increases in amount
till it fills the sac. Sometimes a portion of the clot in the sac is
separated and becomes impacted as an embolus in the artery beyond,
leading to thrombosis which first occludes the artery and then extends
into the sac.

The progress of natural cure is indicated by the aneurysm becoming
smaller, firmer, less expansile, and less compressible; the murmur and
thrill diminish and the pressure effects become less marked. When the
cure is complete the expansile pulsation is lost, and there remains a
firm swelling attached to the vessel (_consolidated aneurysm_). While
these changes are taking place the collateral arteries become enlarged,
and an anastomotic circulation is established.

An aneurysm may prove _fatal_ by exerting pressure on important
structures, by causing syncope, by rupture, or from the occurrence of
suppuration. _Pressure_ symptoms are usually most serious from aneurysms
situated in the neck, thorax, or skull. Sudden fatal _syncope_ is not
infrequent in cases of aneurysm of the thoracic aorta.

_Rupture_ may take place through the skin, on a mucous or serous
surface, or into the cellular tissue. The first haemorrhage is often
slight and stops naturally, but it soon recurs, and is so profuse,
especially when the blood escapes externally, that it rapidly proves
fatal. When the bleeding takes place into the cellular tissue, the
aneurysm is said to become _diffused_, and the extravasated blood
spreads widely through the tissues, exerting great pressure on the
surrounding structures.

The _clinical features_ associated with rupture are sudden and severe
pain in the part, and the patient becomes pale, cold, and faint. If a
comparatively small escape of blood takes place into the tissues, the
sudden alteration in the size, shape, and tension of the aneurysm,
together with loss of pulsation, may be the only local signs. When the
bleeding is profuse, however, the parts beyond the aneurysm become
greatly swollen, livid, and cold, and the pulse beyond is completely
lost. The arrest of the blood supply may result in gangrene. Sometimes
the pressure of the extravasated blood causes the skin to slough and,
later, give way, and fatal haemorrhage results.

The _treatment_ is carried out on the same lines as for a ruptured
artery (p. 261), it being remembered, however, that the artery is
diseased and does not lend itself to reconstructive procedures.

_Suppuration_ may occur in the vicinity of an aneurysm, and the aneurysm
may burst into the abscess which forms, so that when the latter points
the pus is mixed with broken-down blood-clot, and finally free
haemorrhage takes place. It has more than once happened that a surgeon
has incised such an abscess without having recognised its association
with aneurysm, with tragic results.

#Treatment.#--In treating an aneurysm, the indications are to imitate
Nature's method of cure by means of laminated clot.

_Constitutional treatment_ consists in taking measures to reduce the
arterial tension and to diminish the force of the heart's action. The
patient must be kept in bed. A dry and non-stimulating diet is
indicated, the quantity being gradually reduced till it is just
sufficient to maintain nutrition. Saline purges are employed to reduce
the vascular tension. The benefit derived from potassium iodide
administered in full doses, as first recommended by George W. Balfour,
probab