n firm pressure, fine
crepitation may be felt from crushing of the delicate framework of new
bone.

[Illustration: FIG. 148.--Chondro-Sarcoma of Scapula in a man aet. 63;
removal of the scapula was followed two years later by metastases and
death.]

In _central sarcoma_ pain is the first symptom, and it is usually
constant, dull, and aching; is not obviously increased by use of the
limb, but is often worse at night. Swelling occurs late, and is due to
expansion of the bone; it is fusiform or globular, and is at first
densely hard, but in time there may be parchment-like or egg-shell
crackling from yielding of the thin shell. The swelling may pulsate, and
a bruit may be heard over it. In advanced cases it may be impossible to
differentiate between a periosteal and a central tumour, either
clinically or after the specimen has been laid open.

Pathological fracture is more common in central tumours, and sometimes
is the first sign that calls attention to the condition. Consolidation
rarely takes place, although there is often an attempt at union by the
formation of cartilaginous callus.

[Illustration: FIG. 149.--Central Sarcoma of Lower End of Femur,
invading the knee-joint.

(Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)]

[Illustration: FIG. 150.--Osseous Shell of Osteo-Sarcoma of Upper Third
of Femur, after maceration.]

The soft parts over the tumour for a long time preserve their normal
appearance; or they become oedematous, and the subcutaneous venous
network is evident through the skin. Elevation of the temperature over
the tumour, which may amount to two degrees or more, is a point of
diagnostic significance, as it suggests an inflammatory lesion.

The adjacent joint usually remains intact, although its movements may be
impaired by the bulk of the tumour or by effusion into the cavity.

Enlargement of the neighbouring lymph glands does not necessarily imply
that they have become infected with sarcoma for the enlargement may
disappear after removal of the primary growth; actual infection of the
glands, however, does sometimes occur, and in them the histological
structure of the parent tumour is reproduced.

To obtain a reasonable prospect of cure, the _diagnosis_ must be made at
an early stage. Great reliance is to be placed on information gained by
examination with the X-rays.

[Illustration: FIG. 151.--Radiogram of Osteo-Sarcoma of Upper Third
of Femur.]

_X-ray Appearances._--In periosteal tumours that do not ossify, there is
merely erosion of bone, and the shadow is not unlike that given by
caries; in ossifying tumours, the arrangement of the new bone on the
surface is characteristic, and when it takes the form of spicules at
right angles to the shaft, it is pathognomic.

In soft central tumours, there is disappearance of bone shadow in the
area of the tumour, while above and below or around this, the shadow is
that of normal bone right up to the clear area. In many respects the
X-ray appearances resemble those of myeloma. In tumours in which there
is a considerable amount of imperfectly formed new bone, this gives a
shadow which barely replaces that of the original bone, in parts it may
even add to it--the resulting picture differing widely in different
cases; but it is usually possible to differentiate it from that caused
by bacterial infections of the bone and from lesions of the adjacent
joint.

[Illustration: FIG. 152.--Radiogram of Chondro-Sarcoma of Upper End of
Humerus in a woman aet. 29.]

Skiagraphy is not only of assistance in differentiating new growths from
other diseases of bone, but may also yield information as to the
situation and nature of the tumour, which may have important bearings on
its treatment by operation.

When fracture of a long bone takes place in an adolescent or young adult
from comparatively slight violence, disease of the bone should be
suspected and an X-ray examination made.

In difficult cases the final appeal is to exploratory incision and
microscopical examination of a portion of the tumour; this should be
done when the major operation has been arranged for, the surgeon waiting
until the examination is completed.

The _prognosis_ varies widely. In general, it may be said that
periosteal tumours are less favourable than central ones, because they
are more liable to give rise to metastases. Permanent cures are
unfortunately the exception.

_Treatment._--When one of the bones of a limb is involved, the usual
practice has been to perform amputation well above the growth, and this
may still be recommended as a routine procedure. There are reasons,
however, which may be urged against its continuance. High amputation is
unnecessary in the more benign sarcomas, and in the more malignant forms
is usually unavailing to prevent a fatal issue either from local
recurrence or from metastases in the lungs or elsewhere. Following
the lead of Mikulicz, a considerable number of permanent cures have been
obtained by resecting the portion of bone which is the seat of the
tumou