growth of the mandible. When there is arrest of growth
accompanying ankylosis, it usually depends on changes in the ossifying
junctions caused by the original disease.

To differentiate by manipulation between muscular fixation and
ankylosis, it may be necessary to anaesthetise the patient. The nature
and extent of ankylosis may be learned by skiagraphy; in osseous
ankylosis the shadow of the two bones is a continuous one. In fibrous as
contrasted with osseous ankylosis mobility may be elicited, although
only to a limited extent; while in osseous ankylosis the joint is
rigidly fixed, and attempts to move it are painless.

[Illustration: FIG. 155.--Osseous Ankylosis of Knee in the flexed
position following upon Tuberculous Arthritis.

(Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)]

The _treatment_ is influenced by the nature of the original lesion, the
variety of the ankylosis, and the attitude of the joint. When there is
restriction of movement due to fibrous adhesions, these may be elongated
or ruptured. Elongation of the adhesions may be effected by
manipulations, exercises, and the use of special forms of
apparatus--such as the application of weights to the limb. It may be
necessary to administer an anaesthetic before rupturing strong fibrous
adhesions, and this procedure must be carried out with caution, in view
of such risks as fracture of the bone--which is often rarefied--or
separation of an epiphysis. There is also the risk of fat embolism, and
of re-starting the original disease. The giving way of adhesions may be
attended with an audible crack; and the procedure is often followed by
considerable pain and effusion into the joint, which necessitate rest
for some days before exercises and manipulations can be resumed.

_Operative treatment_ may be called for in cases in which the bones are
closely bound to one another by fibrous or by osseous tissue.

_Arthrolysis_, which consists in opening the joint and dividing the
fibrous adhesions, is almost inevitably followed by their reunion.

_Arthroplasty._--Murphy of Chicago devised this operation for restoring
movement to an ankylosed joint. It consists in transplanting between the
bones a flap of fat-bearing tissue, from which a bursal cavity lined
with endothelium and containing a fluid rich in mucin is ultimately
formed.

Arthroplasty is most successful in ankylosis following upon injury; when
the ankylosis results from some infective condition such as tuberculosis
or gonorrhoea, it is liable to result in failure either because of a
fresh outbreak of the infection or because the ankylosis recurs.

When arthroplasty is impracticable, and a movable joint is desired--for
example at the elbow--a considerable amount of bone, and it may be also
of periosteum and capsular ligament, is resected to allow of the
formation of a false joint.

When bony ankylosis has occurred with the joint in an undesirable
attitude--for example flexion at the hip or knee--it can sometimes be
remedied by osteotomy or by a wedge-shaped resection of the bone, with
or without such additional division of the contracted soft parts as will
permit of the limb being placed in the attitude desired.

Bony ankylosis of the joints of a finger, whether the result of injury
or disease, is difficult to remedy by any operative procedure, for while
it is possible to restore mobility, the new joint is apt to be
flail-like.

_Locking._--A joint is said to lock when its movements are abruptly
arrested by the coming together of bony outgrowths around the joint. It
is best illustrated in arthritis deformans of the hip in which new bone
formed round the rim of the acetabulum mechanically arrests the
excursions of the head of the femur. The new bone, which limits the
movements, is readily demonstrated in skiagrams; it may be removed by
operative means. Locking of joints is more often met with as a result of
injuries, especially in fractures occurring in the region of the elbow.
In certain injuries of the semilunar menisci of the knee, also, the
joint is liable to a variety of locking, which differs, however, in many
respects from that described above.

#Errors of Development.#--These include congenital dislocations and
other deformities of intra-uterine origin, such as abnormal laxity of
joints, absence, displacement, or defective growth of one or other of
the essential constituents of a joint. The more important of these are
described along with the surgery of the Extremities.


DISEASES OF JOINTS

#Bacterial Diseases.#--In most bacterial diseases the organisms are
carried to the joint in the blood-stream, and they lodge either in the
synovial membrane or in one of the bones, whence the disease
subsequently spreads to the other structures of the joint. Organisms may
also be introduced through accidental wounds. It has been shown
experimentally that joints are among the most susceptible parts of the
body to infection, and this would appear to be due to the viscid
character of the synovial fluid, which pr