n which new bone
formed round the rim of the acetabulum mechanically arrests the
excursions of the head of the femur. The new bone, which limits the
movements, is readily demonstrated in skiagrams; it may be removed by
operative means. Locking of joints is more often met with as a result of
injuries, especially in fractures occurring in the region of the elbow.
In certain injuries of the semilunar menisci of the knee, also, the
joint is liable to a variety of locking, which differs, however, in many
respects from that described above.

#Errors of Development.#--These include congenital dislocations and
other deformities of intra-uterine origin, such as abnormal laxity of
joints, absence, displacement, or defective growth of one or other of
the essential constituents of a joint. The more important of these are
described along with the surgery of the Extremities.


DISEASES OF JOINTS

#Bacterial Diseases.#--In most bacterial diseases the organisms are
carried to the joint in the blood-stream, and they lodge either in the
synovial membrane or in one of the bones, whence the disease
subsequently spreads to the other structures of the joint. Organisms may
also be introduced through accidental wounds. It has been shown
experimentally that joints are among the most susceptible parts of the
body to infection, and this would appear to be due to the viscid
character of the synovial fluid, which protects organisms from
bactericidal agents in the tissues and fluids.


PYOGENIC DISEASES

The commoner pyogenic diseases are the result of infection of one or
other of the joint structures with _staphylococci_ or _streptococci_,
which may be demonstrated in the exudate in the joint and in the
substance of the synovial membrane. The mode of infection is the same as
in the pyogenic diseases of bone, the metastasis occurring most
frequently from the mucous membrane of the pharynx (J. B. Murphy). The
localisation of the infection in a particular joint is determined by
injury, exposure to cold, antecedent disease of the joint, or other
factors, the nature of which is not always apparent.

The effects on the joint vary in severity. In the milder forms, there is
engorgement and infiltration of the synovial membrane, and an effusion
into the cavity of the joint of serous fluid mixed with flakes of
fibrin--_serous synovitis_. In more severe infections the exudate
consists of pus mixed with fibrin, and, it may be, red blood
corpuscles--_purulent_ or _suppurative synovitis_; the synovial membrane
and the ligaments are softened, and the surface of the membrane presents
granulations resembling those on an ulcer; foci of suppuration may
develop in the peri-articular cellular tissue and result in abscesses.
In _acute arthritis_, all the structures of the joint are involved; the
articular cartilage is invaded by granulation tissue derived from the
synovial membrane, and from the marrow of the subjacent bone; it
presents a worm-eaten or ulcerated appearance, or it may undergo
necrosis and separate, exposing the subjacent bone and leading to
disintegration of the osseous trabeculae--_caries_. With the destruction
of the ligaments, the stability of the joint is lost, and it becomes
disorganised.

The _clinical features_ vary with the extent of the infection. When
this is confined to the synovial and peri-synovial tissues--_acute
serous_ and _purulent synovitis_--there is the usual general reaction,
associated with pyrexia and great pain in the joint. The part is hot and
swollen, the swelling assuming the shape of the distended synovial sac,
fluctuation can usually be elicited, and the joint is held in the flexed
position.

When the joint is infected by extension from the surrounding cellular
tissue, the joint lesion may not be recognised at an early stage because
of the swollen condition of the limb, and because there are already
symptoms of toxaemia. We have observed a case in which both the hip and
knee joints were infected from the cellular tissue.

If the infection involves all the joint structures--_acute
arthritis_--the general and local phenomena are intensified, the
temperature rises quickly, often with a rigor, and remains high; the
patient looks ill, and is either unable to sleep or the sleep is
disturbed by starting pains. The joint is held rigid in the flexed
position, and the least attempt at movement causes severe pain; the
slightest jar--even the shaking of the bed--may cause agony. The joint
is hot, tensely distended, and there may be oedema of the peri-articular
tissues or of the limb as a whole. If the pus perforates the joint
capsule, there are signs of abscess or of diffuse suppuration in the
cellular tissue. The final disorganisation of the joint is indicated by
abnormal mobility and grating of the articular surfaces, or by
spontaneous displacement of the bones, and this may amount to
dislocation. In the acute arthritis of infants, the epiphysis concerned
may be separated and displaced.

When the _joint is infected through