ot even involve all the nerve fibres. In the
distal end, it extends throughout the entire peripheral distribution of
the nerve, and appears to be due to the cutting off of the fibres from
their trophic nerve cells in the spinal medulla. Immediate suturing of
the ends does not affect the degeneration of the distal segment. The
peripheral end undergoes complete degeneration in from six weeks to two
months.

The physiological effects of complete division are that the muscles
supplied by the nerve are immediately paralysed, the area to which it
furnishes the sole cutaneous supply becomes insensitive, and the other
structures, including tendons, bones, and joints, lose sensation, and
begin to atrophy from loss of the trophic influence.

#Nerves divided in Amputation.#--In the case of nerves divided in an
amputation, there is an active, although necessarily abortive, attempt
at regeneration, which results in the formation of bulbous swellings at
the cut ends of the nerves. When there has been suppuration, and
especially if the nerves have been cut so as to be exposed in the wound,
these bulbous swellings may attain an abnormal size, and are then known
as "amputation" or "stump neuromas" (Fig. 84).

When the nerves in a stump have not been cut sufficiently short, they
may become involved in the cicatrix, and it may be necessary, on account
of pain, to free them from their adhesions, and to resect enough of the
terminal portions to prevent them again becoming adherent. When this is
difficult, a portion may be resected from each of the nerve-trunks at a
higher level; and if this fails to give relief, a fresh amputation may
be performed. When there is agonising pain dependent upon an ascending
neuritis, it may be necessary to resect the corresponding posterior
nerve roots within the vertebral canal.

[Illustration: FIG. 84.--Stump Neuromas of Sciatic Nerve, excised forty
years after the original amputation by Mr. A. G. Miller.]

#Other Injuries of Nerves.#--_Contusion_ of a nerve-trunk is attended
with extravasation of blood into the connective-tissue sheaths, and is
followed by degeneration of the contused nerve fibres. Function is
usually restored, the conducting paths being re-established by the
formation of new nerve fibres.

When a nerve is _torn across_ or badly _crushed_--as, for example, by a
fractured bone--the changes are similar to those in a divided nerve, and
the ultimate result depends on the amount of separation between the ends
and the possibility of the young axis cylinders bridging the gap.

_Involvement of Nerves in Scar Tissue._--Pressure or traction may be
exerted upon a nerve by contracting scar tissue, or a process of
neuritis or perineuritis may be induced.

When terminal filaments are involved in a scar, it is best to dissect
out the scar, and along with it the ends of the nerves pressed upon.
When a nerve-trunk, such as the sciatic, is involved in cicatricial
tissue, the nerve must be exposed and freed from its surroundings
(_neurolysis_), and then stretched so as to tear any adhesions that may
be present above or below the part exposed. It may be advisable to
displace the liberated nerve from its original position so as to
minimise the risk of its incorporation in the scar of the original wound
or in that resulting from the operation--for example, the radial nerve
may be buried in the substance of the triceps, or it may be surrounded
by a segment of vein or portion of fat-bearing fascia.

_Injuries of nerves resulting from_ #gun-shot wounds# include: (1) those
in which the nerve is directly damaged by the bullet, and (2) those in
which the nerve-trunk is involved secondarily either by scar tissue in
its vicinity or by callus following fracture of an adjacent bone. The
primary injuries include contusion, partial or complete division, and
perforation of the nerve-trunk. One of the most constant symptoms is the
early occurrence of severe neuralgic pain, and this is usually
associated with marked hyperaesthesia.

#Regeneration.#--_Process of Repair when the Ends are in Contact._--_If
the wound is aseptic_, and the ends of the divided nerve are sutured or
remain in contact, they become united, and the conducting paths are
re-established by a regeneration of nerve fibres. There is a difference
of opinion as to the method of regeneration. The Wallerian doctrine is
that the axis cylinders in the central end grow downwards, and enter the
nerve sheaths of the distal portion, and continue growing until they
reach the peripheral terminations in muscle and skin, and in course of
time acquire a myelin sheath; the cells of the neurolemma multiply and
form long chains in both ends of the nerve, and are believed to provide
for the nourishment and support of the actively lengthening axis
cylinders. Another view is that the formation of new axis cylinders is
not confined to the central end, but that it goes on also in the
peripheral segment, in which, however, the new axis cylinders do not
attain maturity unt