s of Muscle.#--With the exception of congenital varieties, such
as the rhabdomyoma, tumours of muscle grow from the connective-tissue
framework and not from the muscle fibres. Innocent tumours, such as the
fibroma, lipoma, angioma, and neuro-fibroma, are rare. Malignant tumours
may be primary in the muscle, or may result from extension from adjacent
growths--for example, implication of the pectoral muscle in cancer of
the breast--or they may be derived from tumours situated elsewhere. The
diagnosis of an intra-muscular tumour is made by observing that the
swelling is situated beneath the deep fascia, that it becomes firm and
fixed when the muscle contracts, and that, when the muscle is relaxed,
it becomes softer, and can be moved in the transverse axis of the
muscle, but not in its long axis.

Clinical interest attaches to that form of slowly growing
fibro-sarcoma--_the recurrent fibroid of Paget_--which is most
frequently met with in the muscles of the abdominal wall. A rarer
variety is the ossifying chondro-sarcoma, which undergoes ossification
to such an extent as to be visible in skiagrams.

In primary sarcoma the treatment consists in removing the muscle. In the
limbs, the function of the muscle that is removed may be retained by
transplanting an adjacent muscle in its place.

_Hydatid cysts_ of muscle resemble those developing in other tissues.


DISEASES OF TENDON SHEATHS

Tendon sheaths have the same structure and function as the synovial
membranes of joints, and are liable to the same diseases. Apart from the
tendon sheaths displayed in anatomical dissections, there is a loose
peritendinous and perimuscular cellular tissue which is subject to the
same pathological conditions as the tendon sheaths proper.

#Teno-synovitis.#--The toxic or infective agent is conveyed to the
tendon sheaths through the blood-stream, as in the gouty, gonorrhoeal,
and tuberculous varieties, or is introduced directly through a wound, as
in the common pyogenic form of teno-synovitis.

_Teno-synovitis Crepitans._--In the simple or traumatic form of
teno-synovitis, although the most prominent etiological factor is a
strain or over-use of the tendon, there would appear to be some other,
probably a toxic, factor in its production, otherwise the affection
would be much more common than it is: only a small proportion of those
who strain or over-use their tendons become the subjects of
teno-synovitis. The opposed surfaces of the tendon and its sheath are
covered with fibrinous lymph, so that there is friction when they move
on one another.

The _clinical features_ are pain on movement, tenderness on pressure
over the affected tendon, and a sensation of crepitation or friction
when the tendon is moved in its sheath. The crepitation may be soft like
the friction of snow, or may resemble the creaking of new
leather--"saddle-back creaking." There may be swelling in the long axis
of the tendon, and redness and oedema of the skin. If there is an
effusion of fluid into the sheath, the swelling is more marked and
crepitation is absent. There is little tendency to the formation of
adhesions.

In the upper extremity, the sheath of the long tendon of the biceps may
be affected, but the condition is most common in the tendons about the
wrist, particularly in the extensors of the thumb, and it is most
frequently met with in those who follow occupations which involve
prolonged use or excessive straining of these tendons--for example,
washerwomen or riveters. It also occurs as a result of excessive
piano-playing, fencing, or rowing.

At the ankle it affects the peronei, the extensor digitorum longus, or
the tibialis anterior. It is most often met with in relation to the
tendo-calcaneus--_Achillo-dynia_--and results from the pressure of
ill-fitting boots or from the excessive use and strain of the tendon in
cycling, walking, or dancing. There is pain in raising the heel from the
ground, and creaking can be felt on palpation.

The _treatment_ consists in putting the affected tendon at rest, and
with this object a splint may be helpful; the usual remedies for
inflammation are indicated: Bier's hyperaemia, lead and opium
fomentations, and ichthyol and glycerine. The affection readily subsides
under treatment, but is liable to relapse on a repetition of the
exciting cause.

_Gouty Teno-synovitis._--A deposit of urate of soda beneath the
endothelial covering of tendons or of that lining their sheaths is
commonly met with in gouty subjects. The accumulation of urates may
result in the formation of visible nodular swellings, varying in size
from a pea to a cherry, attached to the tendon and moving with it. They
may be merely unsightly, or they may interfere with the use of the
tendon. Recurrent attacks of inflammation are prone to occur. We have
removed such gouty masses with satisfactory results.

_Suppurative Teno-synovitis._--This form usually follows upon infected
wounds of the fingers--especially of the thumb or little finger--and is
a frequent seq