nd rarely attract attention
until they break down and form abscesses, which are usually about the
size of a cherry, and when these burst sinuses or ulcers result. If the
overlying skin is still intact, the best treatment is excision. If the
abscess has already infected the skin, each focus should be scraped and
packed.

#Sporotrichosis# is a mycotic infection due to the sporothrix Shenkii.
It presents so many features resembling syphilis and tubercle that it is
frequently mistaken for one or other of these affections. It occurs
chiefly in males between fifteen and forty-five, who are farmers, fruit
and vegetable dealers, or florists. There is usually a history of trauma
of the nature of a scratch or a cut, and after a long incubation period
there develop a series of small, hard, round nodules in the skin and
subcutaneous tissue which, without pain or temperature, soften into
cold abscesses and leave indolent ulcers or sinuses. The infection is
of slow progress and follows the course of the lymphatics. From the
gelatinous pus the organism is cultivated without difficulty, and this
is the essential step in arriving at a diagnosis. The disease yields in
a few weeks to full doses of iodide of potassium.

#Elephantiasis.#--This term is applied to an excessive enlargement of a
part depending upon an overgrowth of the skin and subcutaneous cellular
tissue, and it may result from a number of causes, acting independently
or in combination. The condition is observed chiefly in the extremities
and in the external organs of generation.

_Elephantiasis from Lymphatic or Venous Obstruction._--Of this the
best-known example is _tropical elephantiasis_ (E. arabum), which is
endemic in Samoa, Barbadoes, and other places. It attacks the lower
extremity or the genitals in either sex (Figs. 97, 98). The disease is
usually ushered in with fever, and signs of lymphangitis in the part
affected. After a number of such attacks, the lymph vessels appear to
become obliterated, and the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, being
bathed in stagnant lymph--which possibly contains the products of
streptococci--take on an overgrowth, which continues until the part
assumes gigantic proportions. In certain cases the lymph trunks have
been found to be blocked with the parent worms of the filaria Bancrofti.
Cases of elephantiasis of the lower extremity are met with in this
country in which there are no filarial parasites in the lymph vessels,
and these present features closely resembling the tropical variety, and
usually follow upon repeated attacks of lymphangitis or erysipelas.

The part affected is enormously increased in size, and causes
inconvenience from its bulk and weight. In contrast to ordinary dropsy,
there is no pitting on pressure, and the swelling does not disappear on
elevation of the limb. The skin becomes rough and warty, and may hang
down in pendulous folds. Blisters form on the surface and yield an
abundant exudate of clear lymph. From neglect of cleanliness, the skin
becomes the seat of eczema or even of ulceration attended with foul
discharge.

Samson Handley has sought to replace the blocked lymph vessels by
burying in the subcutaneous tissue of the swollen part a number of stout
silk threads--_lymphangioplasty_. By their capillary action they drain
the lymph to a healthy region above, and thus enable it to enter the
circulation. It has been more successful in the face and upper limb than
in the lower extremity. If the tissues are infected with pus organisms,
a course of vaccines should precede the operation.

[Illustration: FIG. 97.--Elephantiasis in a woman aet. 45.]

A similar type of elephantiasis may occur after extirpation of the lymph
glands in the axilla or groin; in the leg in long-standing standing
varix and phlebitis with chronic ulcer; in the arm as a result of
extensive cancerous disease of the lymphatics in the axilla secondarily
to cancer of the breast; and in extensive tuberculous disease of the
lymphatics. The last-named is chiefly observed in the lower limb in
young adult women, and from its following upon lupus of the toes or foot
it has been called _lupus elephantiasis_. The tuberculous infection
spreads slowly up the limb by way of the lymph vessels, and as these are
obliterated the skin and cellular tissues become hypertrophied, and the
surface is studded over with fungating tuberculous masses of a livid
blue colour. As the more severe forms of the disease may prove dangerous
to life by pyogenic complications inducing gangrene of the limb, the
question of amputation may have to be considered.

[Illustration: FIG. 98.--Elephantiasis of Penis and Scrotum in native of
Demerara.

(Mr. Annandale's case.)]

Belonging to this group also is a form of _congenital elephantiasis_
resulting from the circular constriction of a limb _in utero_ by
amniotic bands.

_Elephantiasis occurring apart from lymphatic or venous obstruction_ is
illustrated by _elephantiasis nervorum_, in which there is an overgrowth
of the