eated satellites: Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria, and
Turkey. It was a moving spectacle. Seventy-two delegates spoke for
thirty-two states. The United States, Great Britain, France, Italy, and
Japan had five delegates each. Belgium, Brazil, and Serbia were each
assigned three. Canada, Australia, South Africa, India, China, Greece,
Hedjaz, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Siam, and Czechoslovakia were
allotted two apiece. The remaining states of New Zealand, Bolivia, Cuba,
Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru,
and Uruguay each had one delegate. President Wilson spoke in person for
the United States. England, France, and Italy were represented by their
premiers: David Lloyd George, Georges Clemenceau, and Vittorio Orlando.

[Illustration: PREMIERS LLOYD GEORGE, ORLANDO AND CLEMENCEAU AND
PRESIDENT WILSON AT PARIS]

=The Supreme Council.=--The real work of the settlement was first
committed to a Supreme Council of ten representing the United States,
Great Britain, France, Italy, and Japan. This was later reduced to five
members. Then Japan dropped out and finally Italy, leaving only
President Wilson and the Premiers, Lloyd George and Clemenceau, the
"Big Three," who assumed the burden of mighty decisions. On May 6, their
work was completed and in a secret session of the full conference the
whole treaty of peace was approved, though a few of the powers made
reservations or objections. The next day the treaty was presented to the
Germans who, after prolonged protests, signed on the last day of grace,
June 28. This German treaty was followed by agreements with Austria,
Hungary, Bulgaria, and Turkey. Collectively these great documents formed
the legal basis of the general European settlement.

=The Terms of the Settlement.=--The combined treaties make a huge
volume. The German treaty alone embraces about 80,000 words.
Collectively they cover an immense range of subjects which may be
summarized under five heads: (1) The territorial settlement in Europe;
(2) the destruction of German military power; (3) reparations for
damages done by Germany and her allies; (4) the disposition of German
colonies and protectorates; and (5) the League of Nations.

Germany was reduced by the cession of Alsace-Lorraine to France and the
loss of several other provinces. Austria-Hungary was dissolved and
dismembered. Russia was reduced by the creation of new states on the
west. Bulgaria was stripped of her gains in the recent Balkan wars.
Turkey was dismembered. Nine new independent states were created:
Poland, Finland, Lithuania, Latvia, Esthonia, Ukraine, Czechoslovakia,
Armenia, and Hedjaz. Italy, Greece, Rumania, and Serbia were enlarged by
cessions of territory and Serbia was transformed into the great state of
Jugoslavia.

The destruction of German military power was thorough. The entire navy,
with minor exceptions, was turned over to the Allied and Associated
Powers; Germany's total equipment for the future was limited to six
battleships and six light cruisers, with certain small vessels but no
submarines. The number of enlisted men and officers for the army was
fixed at not more than 100,000; the General Staff was dissolved; and the
manufacture of munitions restricted.

Germany was compelled to accept full responsibility for all damages; to
pay five billion dollars in cash and goods, and to make certain other
payments which might be ordered from time to time by an inter-allied
reparations commission. She was also required to deliver to Belgium,
France, and Italy, millions of tons of coal every year for ten years;
while by way of additional compensation to France the rich coal basin of
the Saar was placed under inter-allied control to be exploited under
French administration for a period of at least fifteen years. Austria
and the other associates of Germany were also laid under heavy
obligations to the victors. Damages done to shipping by submarines and
other vessels were to be paid for on the basis of ton for ton.

The disposition of the German colonies and the old Ottoman empire
presented knotty problems. It was finally agreed that the German
colonies and Turkish provinces which were in a backward stage of
development should be placed under the tutelage of certain powers acting
as "mandatories" holding them in "a sacred trust of civilization." An
exception to the mandatory principle arose in the case of German rights
in Shantung, all of which were transferred directly to Japan. It was
this arrangement that led the Chinese delegation to withhold their
signatures from the treaty.

=The League of Nations.=--High among the purposes which he had in mind
in summoning the nation to arms, President Wilson placed the desire to
put an end to war. All through the United States the people spoke of the
"war to end war." No slogan called forth a deeper response from the
public. The President himself repeatedly declared that a general
association of nations must be formed to guard the peace and protect all
against the amb