fer at the same time. In most cases the joint
affection makes its appearance a few days after the commencement of a
pneumonia, but in a number of instances, especially among children, the
lung is not specially involved, and the condition is an indication of a
generalised pneumococcal infection, which may manifest itself by
endocarditis, empyema, meningitis, or peritonitis, and frequently has a
fatal termination. The differential diagnosis from other forms of
pyogenic infection is established by bacteriological examination of the
fluid withdrawn from the joint. The treatment is carried out on the same
lines as in other pyogenic infections, considerable reliance being
placed on the use of autogenous vaccines.

In #measles#, #diphtheria#, #smallpox#, #influenza#, and #dysentery#,
similar joint lesions may occur.

The joint lesions which accompany #acute rheumatism# or "rheumatic
fever" are believed to be due to a diplococcus. In the course of a
general illness in which there is moderate pyrexia and profuse sweating,
some of the larger joints, and not infrequently the smaller ones also,
become swollen and extremely sensitive, so that the sufferer lies in bed
helpless, dreading the slightest movement. From day to day fresh joints
are attacked, while those first affected subside, often with great
rapidity. Affections of the heart-valves and of the pericardium are
commonly present. On recovery from the acute illness, it may be found
that the joints have entirely recovered, but in a small proportion of
cases certain of them remain stiff and pass into the crippled condition
described under chronic rheumatism. There is no call for operative
interference.

#Gonococcal Affections of Joints.#--These include all forms of joint
lesion occurring in association with gonorrhoeal urethritis,
vulvo-vaginitis, or gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. They may develop at any stage
of the urethritis, but are most frequently met with from the eighteenth
to the twenty-second day after the primary infection, when the organisms
have reached the posterior urethra; they have been observed, however,
after the discharge has ceased. There is no connection between the
severity of the gonorrhoea and the incidence of joint disease. In women,
the gonorrhoeal nature of the discharge must be established by
bacteriological examination.

As a complication of ophthalmia, the joint lesions are met with in
infants, and occur more commonly towards the end of the second or during
the third week.

The gonococcus is carried to the joint in the blood-stream and is first
deposited in the synovial membrane, in the tissues of which it can
usually be found; it may be impossible to find it in the exudate within
the joint. The joint lesions may be the only evidence of metastasis, or
they may be part of a general infection involving the endocardium,
pleura, and tendon sheaths.

The joints most frequently affected are the knee, elbow, ankle, wrist,
and fingers. Usually two or more joints are affected.

Several clinical types are differentiated. (1) A _dry poly-arthritis_
met with in the joints and tendon sheaths of the wrist and hand,
formerly described as gonorrhoeal rheumatism, which in some cases is
trifling and evanescent, and in others is persistent and progressive,
and results in stiffness of the affected joints and permanent crippling
of the hand and fingers.

(2) The commonest type is a _chronic synovitis_ or _hydrops_, in which
the joint--very often the knee--becomes filled with a serous or
sero-fibrinous exudate. There are no reactive changes in the synovial
membrane, cellular tissue, or skin, nor is there any fever or
disturbance of health. The movements are free except in so far as they
are restricted by the amount of fluid in the joint. It usually subsides
in two or three weeks under rest, but tends to relapse.

(3) An _acute synovitis_ with peri-articular phlegmon is most often met
with in the elbow, but it occurs also in the knee and ankle. There is a
sudden onset of severe pain and swelling in and around the joint, with
considerable fever and disturbance of health. The slightest movement
causes pain, and the part is sensitive to touch. The skin is hot and
tense, and in the case of the elbow may be red and fiery as in
erysipelas.

The deposit of fibrin on the synovial membrane and on the articular
surfaces may lead to the formation of adhesions, sometimes in the form
of isolated bands, sometimes in the form of a close fibrous union
between the bones.

(4) A _suppurative arthritis_, like that caused by ordinary pus
microbes, may be the result of gonococcal infection alone or of a mixed
infection. Usually only one joint is affected, but the condition may be
multiple. The articular cartilages are destroyed, the ends of the bones
are covered with granulations, extra-articular abscesses form, and
complete osseous ankylosis results.

The _diagnosis_ is often missed because the possibility of gonorrhoea is
not suspected.

The denial of the disease by the patient is no