ulosis, _secondary cancer_ is the
most common disease of lymph glands. In the neck it is met with in
association with epithelioma of the lip, tongue, or fauces. The glands
form tumours of variable size, and are often larger than the primary
growth, the characters of which they reproduce. The glands are at first
movable, but soon become fixed both to each other and to their
surroundings; when fixed to the mandible they form a swelling of
bone-like hardness; in time they soften, liquefy, and burst through the
skin, forming foul, fungating ulcers. A similar condition is met with in
the groin from epithelioma of the penis, scrotum, or vulva. In cancer of
the breast, the infection of the axillary glands is an important
complication.

In _pigmented_ or _melanotic cancers_ of the skin, the glands are early
infected and increase rapidly, so that, when the primary growth is still
of small size--as, for example, on the sole of the foot--the femoral
glands may already constitute large pigmented tumours.

[Illustration: FIG. 83.--Cancerous Glands in Neck secondary to
Epithelioma of Lip.

(Mr. G. L. Chiene's case.)]

The implication of the glands in other forms of cancer will be
considered with regional surgery.

_Secondary sarcoma_ is seldom met with in the lymph glands except when
the primary growth is a lympho-sarcoma and is situated in the tonsil,
thyreoid, or testicle.




CHAPTER XVI

THE NERVES


Anatomy--INJURIES OF NERVES: Changes in nerves after division;
    Repair and its modifications; Clinical features; _Primary and
    secondary suture_--SUBCUTANEOUS INJURIES OF
    NERVES--DISEASES: _Neuritis_; _Tumours_--Surgery of
    the individual nerves: _Brachial neuralgia_; _Sciatica_;
    _Trigeminal neuralgia_.

#Anatomy.#--A nerve-trunk is made up of a variable number of bundles of
nerve fibres surrounded and supported by a framework of connective
tissue. The nerve fibres are chiefly of the medullated type, and they
run without interruption from a nerve cell or _neuron_ in the brain or
spinal medulla to their peripheral terminations in muscle, skin, and
secretory glands.

Each nerve fibre consists of a number of nerve fibrils collected into a
central bundle--the axis cylinder--which is surrounded by an envelope,
the neurolemma or sheath of Schwann. Between the neurolemma and the axis
cylinder is the medullated sheath, composed of a fatty substance known
as myelin. This medullated sheath is interrupted at the nodes of
Ranvier, and in each internode is a nucleus lying between the myelin and
the neurolemma. The axis cylinder is the essential conducting structure
of the nerve, while the neurolemma and the myelin act as insulating
agents. The axis cylinder depends for its nutrition on the central
neuron with which it is connected, and from which it originally
developed, and it degenerates if it is separated from its neuron.

The connective-tissue framework of a nerve-trunk consists of the
_perineurium_, or general sheath, which surrounds all the bundles; the
_epineurium_, surrounding individual groups of bundles; and the
_endoneurium_, a delicate connective tissue separating the individual
nerve fibres. The blood vessels and lymphatics run in these
connective-tissue sheaths.

According to Head and his co-workers, Sherren and Rivers, the afferent
fibres in the peripheral nerves can be divided into three systems:--

1. Those which subserve _deep sensibility_ and conduct the impulses
produced by pressure as well as those which enable the patient to
recognise the position of a joint on passive movement (joint-sensation),
and the kinaesthetic sense, which recognises that active contraction of
the muscle is taking place (active muscle-sensation). The fibres of this
system run with the motor nerves, and pass to muscles, tendons, and
joints. Even division of both the ulnar and the median nerves above the
wrist produces little loss of deep sensibility, unless the tendons are
also cut through. The failure to recognise this form of sensibility has
been largely responsible for the conflicting statements as to the
sensory phenomena following operations for the repair of divided nerves.

2. Those which subserve _protopathic_ sensibility--that is, are capable
of responding to painful cutaneous stimuli and to the extremes of heat
and cold. These also endow the hairs with sensibility to pain. They are
the first to regenerate after division.

3. Those which subserve _epicritic_ sensibility, the most highly
specialised, capable of appreciating light touch, _e.g._ with a wisp of
cotton wool, as a well-localised sensation, and the finer grades of
temperature, called cool and warm (72 o-104 o F.), and of discriminating
as separate the points of a pair of compasses 2 cms. apart. These are
the last to regenerate.

A nerve also exerts a trophic influence on the tissues in which it is
distributed.

The researches of Stoffel on the minute anatomy of the larger nerves,
and the disposition in them of the bundles of nerve fibres supplying
differ