Without apparent cause, the joint
fills with fluid and its movements become restricted, and after from two
to eight days the swelling subsides and the joint returns to normal. A
remarkable feature of the condition is that the effusion into the joint
recurs at regular intervals, it may be over a period of years. Psychic
conditions have been known to induce attacks, and sometimes to abort
them or even to cause their disappearance. Hence it has been recommended
that treatment by suggestion should be employed along with tonic doses
of quinine and arsenic.


HYSTERICAL OR MIMETIC JOINT AFFECTIONS

Under this heading, Sir Benjamin Brodie, in 1822, described an affection
of joints, characterised by the prominence of subjective symptoms and
the absence of pathological changes. Although most frequently met with
in young women with an impressionable nervous system, and especially
among those in good social circumstances, it occurs occasionally in men.
The onset may be referred to injury or exposure to cold, or may be
associated with some disturbance of the emotions or of the generative
organs; or the condition may be an involuntary imitation of the symptoms
of organic joint disease presented by a relative or friend.

It is characteristic that the symptoms develop abruptly without
satisfactory cause, that they are exaggerated and wanting in harmony
with one another, and that they do not correspond with the features of
any of the known forms of organic disease. In some cases the only
complaint is of severe pain; more often this is associated with
excessive tenderness and with impairment of the functions of the joint.
On examination the joint presents a normal appearance, but the skin
over it is remarkably sensitive. A light touch is more likely to excite
pain than deep and firm pressure. Stiffness is a variable feature--in
some cases amounting to absolute rigidity, so that no ordinary force
will elicit movement. It is characteristic of this, as of other
neuroses, that the symptoms come and go without sufficient cause. When
the patient's attention is diverted, the pain and stiffness may
disappear. There is no actual swelling of the joint, although there may
be an appearance of this from wasting of the muscles above and below. If
the joint is kept rigid for long periods, secondary contracture may
occur--in the knee with flexion, in the hip with flexion and adduction.

The _diagnosis_ is often a matter of considerable difficulty, and the
condition is liable to be mistaken for such organic lesions as a
tuberculous or pyogenic focus in the bone close to the joint.

The greatest difficulty is met with in the knee and hip, where the
condition may closely simulate tuberculous disease. The use of the
Rontgen rays, or examination of the joint under anaesthesia, is helpful.

The _local treatment_ consists chiefly in improving the nutrition of the
affected limb by means of massage, exercises, baths, and electricity.
Splints are to be avoided. In refractory cases, benefit may follow the
application of blisters or of Corrigan's button. The general condition
of the patient must be treated on the same lines as in other neuroses.
The Weir-Mitchell treatment may have to be employed in obstinate cases,
the patient being secluded from her friends and placed in charge of a
nurse. Complete recovery is the rule, but when the muscles are weak and
wasted from prolonged disuse, a considerable time may elapse before the
limb returns to normal.


TUMOURS AND CYSTS

New growths taking origin in the synovial membrane are rare, and are not
usually diagnosed before operation. They are attended with exudation
into the joint, and in the case of _sarcoma_ the fluid is usually
blood-stained. If the tumour projects in a polypoidal manner into the
joint, it may cause symptoms of loose body. One or two cases have been
recorded in which a _cartilaginous tumour_ growing from the synovial
membrane has erupted through the joint capsule and infiltrated the
adjoining muscles. _Multiple cartilaginous tumours_ forming loose bodies
are described on p. 544.

_Cysts of joints_ constitute an ill-defined group which includes ganglia
formed in relation to the capsular ligament. Cystic distension of bursae
which communicate with the joint is most often met with in the region of
the knee in cases of long-standing hydrops. It was suggested by Morrant
Baker that cystic swellings may result from the hernial protrusion of
the synovial membrane between the stretched fibres of the capsular
ligament, and the name "Baker's cysts" has been applied to these.

In the majority of cases, cysts in relation to joints give rise to
little inconvenience and may be left alone. If interfered with at all,
they should be excised.


LOOSE BODIES

It is convenient to describe the varieties of loose bodies under two
heads: those composed of fibrin, and those composed of organised
connective tissue.

#Fibrinous Loose Bodies# (Corpora oryzoidea).--These are homogeneous or
concentrically laminated ma