d abscess on the median side of the upper arm and by a huge mass of
breaking down glands in the axilla.

In children who run about barefooted in towns, tubercle may be
inoculated into wounds in the sole or about the toes, and although the
local appearances may not be characteristic, the nature of the infection
is revealed by its tendency to spread up the limb along the lymph
vessels, giving rise to abscesses and fungating ulcers in relation to
the femoral glands.

#Tuberculous Lupus.#--This is an extremely chronic affection of the
skin. It rarely extends to the lymph glands, and of all tuberculous
lesions is the least dangerous to life. The commonest form of
lupus--_lupus vulgaris_--usually commences in childhood or youth, and is
most often met with on the nose or cheek. The early and typical
appearance is that of brownish-yellow or pink nodules in the skin, about
the size of hemp seed. Healing frequently occurs in the centre of the
affected area while the disease continues to extend at the margin.

When there is actual destruction of tissue and ulceration--the so-called
"_lupus excedens_" or "_ulcerans_"--healing is attended with
cicatricial contraction, which may cause unsightly deformity. When the
cheek is affected, the lower eyelid may be drawn down and everted; when
the lips are affected, the mouth may be distorted or seriously
diminished in size. When the nose is attacked, both the skin and mucous
surfaces are usually involved, and the nasal orifices may be narrowed or
even obliterated; sometimes the soft parts, including the cartilages,
are destroyed, leaving only the bones covered by tightly stretched scar
tissue.

The disease progresses slowly, healing in some places and spreading at
others. The patient complains of a burning sensation, but little of
pain, and is chiefly concerned about the disfigurement. Nothing is more
characteristic of lupus than the appearance of fresh nodules in parts
which have already healed. In the course of years large tracts of the
face and neck may become affected. From the lips it may spread to the
gum and palate, giving to the mucous membrane the appearance of a
raised, bright-red, papillary or villous surface. When the disease
affects the gums, the teeth may become loose and fall out.

[Illustration: FIG. 96.--Tuberculous Elephantiasis in a woman aet. 35.]

On parts of the body other than the face, the disease is even more
chronic, and is often attended with a considerable production of dense
fibrous tissue--the so-called _fibroid lupus_. Sometimes there is a
warty thickening of the epidermis--_lupus verrucosus_. In the fingers
and toes it may lead to a progressive destruction of tissue like that
observed in leprosy, and from the resulting loss of portions of the
digits it has been called _lupus mutilans_. In the lower extremity a
remarkable form of the disease is sometimes met with, to which the term
_lupus elephantiasis_ (Fig. 96) has been applied. It commences as an
ordinary lupus of the toes or dorsum of the foot, from which the
tuberculous infection spreads to the lymph vessels, and the limb as a
whole becomes enormously swollen and unshapely.

Finally, a long-standing lupus, especially on the cheek, may become the
seat of epithelioma--_lupus epithelioma_--usually of the exuberant or
cauliflower type, which, like other epitheliomas that originate in scar
tissue, presents little tendency to infect the lymphatics.

The _diagnosis_ of lupus is founded on the chronic progress and long
duration, and the central scarring with peripheral extension of the
disease. On the face it is most liable to be confused with syphilis and
with rodent cancer. The syphilitic lesion belongs to the tertiary
period, and although presenting a superficial resemblance to
tuberculosis, its progress is more rapid, so that within a few months it
may involve an area of skin as wide as would be affected by lupus in as
many years. Further, it readily yields to anti-syphilitic treatment. In
cases of tertiary syphilis in which the nose is destroyed, it will be
noticed that the bones have suffered most, while in lupus the
destruction of tissue involves chiefly the soft parts.

Rodent cancer is liable to be mistaken for lupus, because it affects the
same parts of the face; it is equally chronic, and may partly heal. It
begins later in life, however, the margin of the ulcer is more sharply
defined, and often presents a "rolled" appearance.

_Treatment._--When the disease is confined to a limited area, the most
rapid and certain cure is obtained by _excision_; larger areas are
scraped with the sharp spoon. The _ray treatment_ includes the use of
luminous, Rontgen, or radium rays, and possesses the advantage of being
comparatively painless and of being followed by the least amount of
scarring and deformity.

Encouraging results have also been obtained by the application of carbon
dioxide snow.

#Multiple subcutaneous tuberculous nodules# are met with chiefly in
children. They are indolent and painless, a