ain number of signatures among the voters, to require the
submission of the measure to the people at an election. If the bill thus
initiated receives a sufficient majority, it becomes a law. The
referendum allows citizens who disapprove any act passed by the
legislature to get up a petition against it and thus bring about a
reference of the measure to the voters at the polls for approval or
rejection. These two practices constitute a form of "direct government."

These devices were prescribed "to restore the government to the people."
The Populists favored them in their platform of 1896. Mr. Bryan, two
years later, made them a part of his program, and in the same year South
Dakota adopted them. In 1902 Oregon, after a strenuous campaign, added a
direct legislation amendment to the state constitution. Within ten years
all the Southwestern, Mountain, and Pacific states, except Texas and
Wyoming, had followed this example. To the east of the Mississippi,
however, direct legislation met a chilly reception. By 1920 only five
states in this section had accepted it: Maine, Massachusetts, Ohio,
Michigan, and Maryland, the last approving the referendum only.

=The Recall.=--Executive officers and judges, as well as legislatures,
had come in for their share of criticism, and it was proposed that they
should likewise be subjected to a closer scrutiny by the public. For
this purpose there was advanced a scheme known as the recall--which
permitted a certain percentage of the voters to compel any officer, at
any time during his term, to go before the people at a new election.
This feature of direct government, tried out first in the city of Los
Angeles, was extended to state-wide uses in Oregon in 1908. It failed,
however, to capture popular imagination to the same degree as the
initiative and referendum. At the end of ten years' agitation, only ten
states, mainly in the West, had adopted it for general purposes, and
four of them did not apply it to the judges of the courts. Still it was
extensively acclaimed in cities and incorporated into hundreds of
municipal laws and charters.

As a general proposition, direct government in all its forms was
bitterly opposed by men of a conservative cast of mind. It was denounced
by Senator Henry Cabot Lodge as "nothing less than a complete revolution
in the fabric of our government and in the fundamental principles upon
which that government rests." In his opinion, it promised to break down
the representative principle and "undermine and overthrow the bulwarks
of ordered liberty and individual freedom." Mr. Taft shared Mr. Lodge's
views and spoke of direct government with scorn. "Votes," he exclaimed,
"are not bread ... referendums do not pay rent or furnish houses,
recalls do not furnish clothes, initiatives do not supply employment or
relieve inequalities of condition or of opportunity."

=Commission Government for Cities.=--In the restless searching out of
evils, the management of cities early came under critical scrutiny. City
government, Mr. Bryce had remarked, was the one conspicuous failure in
America. This sharp thrust, though resented by some, was accepted as a
warning by others. Many prescriptions were offered by doctors of the
body politic. Chief among them was the idea of simplifying the city
government so that the light of public scrutiny could shine through it.
"Let us elect only a few men and make them clearly responsible for the
city government!" was the new cry in municipal reform. So, many city
councils were reduced in size; one of the two houses, which several
cities had adopted in imitation of the federal government, was
abolished; and in order that the mayor could be held to account, he was
given the power to appoint all the chief officials. This made the mayor,
in some cases, the only elective city official and gave the voters a
"short ballot" containing only a few names--an idea which some proposed
to apply also to the state government.

A further step in the concentration of authority was taken in Galveston,
Texas, where the people, looking upon the ruin of their city wrought by
the devastating storm of 1901, and confronted by the difficult problems
of reconstruction, felt the necessity for a more businesslike management
of city affairs and instituted a new form of local administration. They
abolished the old scheme of mayor and council and vested all power in
five commissioners, one of whom, without any special prerogatives, was
assigned to the office of "mayor president." In 1908, the commission
form of government, as it was soon characterized, was adopted by Des
Moines, Iowa. The attention of all municipal reformers was drawn to it
and it was hailed as the guarantee of a better day. By 1920, more than
four hundred cities, including Memphis, Spokane, Birmingham, Newark, and
Buffalo, had adopted it. Still the larger cities like New York and
Chicago kept their boards of aldermen.

=The City Manager Plan.=--A few years' experience with commission
government re