periosteum, but when the disease
occurs in a rib it may be necessary to resect a portion of bone.

#Pyogenic Osteomyelitis due to Spread of Infection from the Soft
Parts.#--There still remain those forms of osteomyelitis which result
from infection through a wound involving the bone--for example, compound
fractures, gun-shot injuries, osteotomies, amputations, resections, or
operations for un-united fracture. In all of these the marrow is exposed
to infection by such organisms as are present in the wound. A similar
form of osteomyelitis may occur apart from a wound--for example,
infection may spread to the jaws from lesions of the mouth; to the
skull, from lesions of the scalp or of the cranial bones
themselves--such as a syphilitic gumma or a sarcoma which has fungated
externally; or to the petrous temporal, from suppuration in the middle
ear.

The most common is an osteomyelitis commencing in the marrow exposed in
a wound infected with pyogenic organisms. In amputation stumps,
fungating granulations protrude from the sawn end of the bone, and if
necrosis takes place, the sequestrum is annular, affecting the
cross-section of the bone at the saw-line; or tubular, extending up the
shaft, and tapering off above. The periosteum is more easily detached,
is thicker than normal, and is actively engaged in forming bone. In the
macerated specimen, the new bone presents a characteristic coral-like
appearance, and may be perforated by cloacae (Fig. 122).

[Illustration: FIG. 122.--Tubular Sequestrum resulting from Septic
Osteomyelitis in Amputation Stump.]

Like other pyogenic infections, it may terminate in pyaemia, as a result
of septic phlebitis in the marrow.

The _clinical features_ of osteomyelitis in _an amputation stump_ are
those of ordinary pyogenic infection; the involvement of the bone may be
suspected from the clinical course, the absence of improvement from
measures directed towards overcoming the sepsis in the soft parts, and
the persistence of suppuration in spite of free drainage, but it is not
recognised unless the bone is exposed by opening up the stump or the
changes in the bone are shown by the X-rays. The first change is due to
the deposit of new bone on the periosteal surface; later, there is the
shadow of the sequestrum.

Healing does not take place until the sequestrum is extruded or removed
by operation.

_In compound fractures_, if a fragment dies and forms a sequestrum, it
is apt to be walled in by new bone; the sinuses continue to discharge
until the sequestrum is removed. Even after healing has taken place,
relapse is liable to occur, especially in gun-shot injuries. Months or
years afterwards, the bone may become painful and tender. The symptoms
may subside under rest and elevation of the limb and the application of
a compress, or an abscess forms and bursts with comparatively little
suffering. The contents may be clear yellow serum or watery pus;
sometimes a small spicule of bone is discharged. Valuable information,
both for diagnosis and treatment, is afforded by skiagrams.

[Illustration: FIG. 123.--New Periosteal Bone on surface of Femur from
Amputation Stump. Osteomyelitis supervened on the amputation, and
resulted in necrosis at the sawn section of the bone. (Anatomical
Museum, University of Edinburgh.)]


TUBERCULOUS DISEASE

The tuberculous diseases of bone result from infection of the marrow or
periosteum by tubercle bacilli conveyed through the arteries; it is
exceedingly rare for tubercle to appear in bone as a primary infection,
the bacilli being usually derived from some pre-existing focus in the
bronchial glands or elsewhere. According to the observations of John
Fraser, 60 per cent. of the cases of bone and joint tubercle in children
are due to the bovine bacillus, 37 per cent. to the human variety, and
in 3 per cent. both types are present.

Tuberculous disease in bone is characterised by its insidious onset and
slow progress, and by the frequency with which it is associated with
disease of the adjacent joint.

#Periosteal tuberculosis# is met with in the ribs, sternum, vertebral
column, skull, and less frequently in the long bones of the limbs. It
may originate in the periosteum, or may spread thence from the marrow,
or from synovial membrane.

_In superficial bones_, such as the sternum, the formation of
tuberculous granulation tissue in the deeper layer of the periosteum,
and its subsequent caseation and liquefaction, is attended by the
insidious development of a doughy swelling, which is not as a rule
painful, although tender on pressure. While the swelling often remains
quiescent for some time, it tends to increase in size, to become boggy
or fluctuating, and to assume the characters of a cold abscess. The pus
perforates the fibrous layer of the periosteum, invading and infecting
the overlying soft parts, its spread being influenced by the anatomical
arrangement of the tissues. The size of the abscess affords no
indication of the extent of the bone lesion from which