J. W. Struthers' case.)

(The unusual site of the tumour is to be noted.)]

#Myeloma.#--A myeloma is composed of large multinuclear giant cells
surrounded by round and spindle cells. The cut surface of the tumour
presents a deep red or maroon colour. While occasionally met with in
tendon sheaths and bursae, and is then of an orange-yellow colour, the
myeloma occurs most frequently in the cancellous tissue at the ends of
the long bones, its favourite site being the upper end of the tibia.
Although formerly classified as a sarcoma, it is the exception for it to
present malignant features, and it can usually be extirpated by local
measures without fear of recurrence. The diagnosis, X-ray appearances,
and the method of removal are considered with the diseases of bone.
Sometimes the myeloma is met with in multiple form in the skeleton, in
association with an unusual form of protein in the urine (Bence Jones).

#Myoma.#--A myoma is composed of non-striped muscle fibres. A pure myoma
is very rare, and is met with in organs possessed of non-striped muscle,
such as the stomach, intestine, urinary bladder, and prostate. In the
uterus, which is the most common situation, these tumours contain a
considerable admixture of fibrous tissue, and are known as _fibroids_ or
_fibro-myomas_. They present on section a fasciculated appearance, which
may resemble that of a section of balls of cotton (Fig. 54). They are
encapsulated and vascular, frequently attain a large size, and may be
single or multiple. While they may occasion neither inconvenience nor
suffering, they frequently give rise to profuse haemorrhage from the
uterus, and may cause serious symptoms by pressing injuriously on the
ureters or the intestine, or by complicating pregnancy and parturition.

The #Rhabdomyoma# is an extremely rare form of tumour, met with in the
kidney, uterus, and testicle. It contains striped muscle fibres, and is
supposed to originate from a residue of muscular tissue which has become
sequestrated during development.

[Illustration: FIG. 54.--Fibro-myoma of Uterus.

(Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)]

#Glioma.#--A glioma is a tumour composed of neuroglia. It is met with
exclusively in the central nervous system, retina, and optic nerve. It
is a slowly growing, soft, ill-defined tumour, which displaces the
adjacent nerve centres and nerve tracts, and is liable to become the
seat of haemorrhage and thus to give rise to pressure symptoms resembling
apoplexy. The glioma of the retina tends to grow into the vitreous
humour and to perforate the globe. It is usually of the nature of a
glio-sarcoma and is highly malignant.

#Endotheliomas# take origin from the endothelium of lymph vessels and
blood vessels, and serous cavities. They show great variation in type,
partly because of the number of different kinds of endothelium from
which they are derived, and partly because the new connective tissue
which is formed is liable to undergo transformation into other tissues.
They may be soft or hard, solid or cystic, diffuse or circumscribed;
they grow very slowly, and are almost always innocent, although
recurrence has been occasionally observed. Cases of multiple
endotheliomata of the skin have recently been described by Wise.

_Angioma_, _lymphangioma_, and _neuroma_ are described with the disease
of the individual tissues.


MALIGNANT CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS--SARCOMA

The term sarcoma is applied to any connective-tissue tumour which
exhibits malignant characters. The essential structural feature is the
predominance of the cellular elements over the intercellular substance
or stroma, in which respect a sarcoma resembles the connective tissue of
the embryo. The typical sarcoma consists chiefly of immature or
embryonic connective tissue. It most frequently originates from fascia,
intermuscular connective tissue, periosteum, bone-marrow, and skin, and
forms a rounded or nodulated tumour which appears to be encapsulated,
but the capsule merely consists of the condensed surrounding tissues,
and usually contains sarcomatous elements. The consistence of the tumour
depends on the nature and amount of the stroma, and on the presence of
degenerative changes. The softer medullary forms are composed almost
exclusively of cells; while the harder forms--such as the fibro-,
chondro-, and osteo-sarcoma--are provided with an abundant stroma and
are relatively poor in cells. Degenerative changes may produce areas of
softening or liquefaction which result in the formation of cystic
cavities in the interior of the tumour. The colour depends on the amount
of blood in the tumour, and on the presence of the products of
degeneration.

The blood vessels are usually represented by mere chinks or spaces
between the cells. This peculiarity accounts for the facility with which
haemorrhage takes place into the substance of the tumour, the persistence
of the bleeding when it is incised or ulcerates through the skin, and
the readiness with which the sarcomatous cells ar