dertakings was
freely, and often corruptly, granted to private companies by city
councils. Distressing abuses arose in connection with such practices.
Many grants or franchises were made perpetual, or perhaps for a term of
999 years. The rates charged and services rendered were left largely to
the will of the companies holding the franchises. Mergers or unions of
companies were common and the public was deluged with stocks and bonds
of doubtful value; bankruptcies were frequent. The connection between
the utility companies and the politicians was, to say the least, not
always in the public interest.

American ingenuity was quick to devise methods for eliminating such
evils. Three lines of progress were laid out by the reformers. One group
proposed that such utilities should be subject to municipal or state
regulation, that the formation of utility companies should be under
public control, and that the issue of stocks and bonds must be approved
by public authority. In some cases state, and in other cases municipal,
commissions were created to exercise this great power over "quasi-public
corporations." Wisconsin, by laws enacted in 1907, put all heat, light,
water works, telephone, and street railway companies under the
supervision of a single railway commission. Other states followed this
example rapidly. By 1920 the principle of public control over municipal
utilities was accepted in nearly every section of the union.

A second line of reform appeared in the "model franchise" for utility
corporations. An illustration of this tendency was afforded by the
Chicago street railway settlement of 1906. The total capital of the
company was fixed at a definite sum, its earnings were agreed upon, and
the city was given the right to buy and operate the system if it desired
to do so. In many states, about the same time, it was provided that no
franchises to utility companies could run more than twenty-five years.

A third group of reformers were satisfied with nothing short of
municipal ownership. They proposed to drive private companies entirely
out of the field and vest the ownership and management of municipal
plants in the city itself. This idea was extensively applied to electric
light and water works plants, but to street railways in only a few
cities, including San Francisco and Seattle. In New York the subways are
owned by the city but leased for operation.

=Tenement House Control.=--Among the other pressing problems of the
cities was the overcrowding in houses unfit for habitation. An inquiry
in New York City made under the authority of the state in 1902 revealed
poverty, misery, slums, dirt, and disease almost beyond imagination. The
immediate answer was the enactment of a tenement house law prescribing
in great detail the size of the rooms, the air space, the light and the
sanitary arrangement for all new buildings. An immense improvement
followed and the idea was quickly taken up in other states having large
industrial centers. In 1920 New York made a further invasion of the
rights of landlords by assuring to the public "reasonable rents" for
flats and apartments.

=Workmen's Compensation.=--No small part of the poverty in cities was
due to the injury of wage-earners while at their trade. Every year the
number of men and women killed or wounded in industry mounted higher.
Under the old law, the workman or his family had to bear the loss unless
the employer had been guilty of some extraordinary negligence. Even in
that case an expensive lawsuit was usually necessary to recover
"damages." In short, although employers insured their buildings and
machinery against necessary risks from fire and storm, they allowed
their employees to assume the heavy losses due to accidents. The
injustice of this, though apparent enough now, was once not generally
recognized. It was said to be unfair to make the employer pay for
injuries for which he was not personally responsible; but the argument
was overborne.

[Illustration: AN EAST SIDE STREET IN NEW YORK]

About 1910 there set in a decided movement in the direction of lifting
the burden of accidents from the unfortunate victims. In the first
place, laws were enacted requiring employers to pay damages in certain
amounts according to the nature of the case, no matter how the accident
occurred, as long as the injured person was not guilty of willful
negligence. By 1914 more than one-half the states had such laws. In the
second place, there developed schemes of industrial insurance in the
form of automatic grants made by state commissions to persons injured in
industries, the funds to be provided by the employers or the state or by
both. By 1917 thirty-six states had legislation of this type.

=Minimum Wages and Mothers' Pensions.=--Another source of poverty,
especially among women and children, was found to be the low wages paid
for their labor. Report after report showed this. In 1912 Massachusetts
took a significant step in the direction of declaring the minimum wages
which