fibrous, or soft, vascular, and oedematous, and the peri-articular fat
becomes swollen and gelatinous, constituting a layer of considerable
thickness. The fat disappears and is replaced by a mucoid effusion
between the fibrous bundles of connective tissue. This is what was
formerly known as _gelatinous degeneration_ of the synovial membrane. In
the case of the wrist the newly formed connective tissue may fix the
tendons in their sheaths, interfering with the movements of the fingers.
In relation to the bones also there may be reactive changes, resulting
in the formation of spicules of new bone on the periosteal surfaces and
at the attachment of the capsular and other ligaments; these are only
met with where pyogenic infection has been superadded.

_Terminations and Sequelae._--A natural process of cure may occur at any
stage, the tuberculous tissue being replaced by scar tissue. Recovery is
apt to be attended with impairment of movement due to adhesions,
ankylosis, or contracture of the peri-articular structures. Caseous foci
in the interior of the bones may become encapsulated, and a cure be thus
effected, or they may be the cause of a relapse of the disease at a
later date. Interference with growth is comparatively common, and may
involve only the epiphysial junctions in the immediate vicinity of the
joint affected, or those of all the bones of the limb. This is well seen
in adults who have suffered from severe disease of the hip in
childhood--the entire limb, including the foot, being shorter and
smaller than the corresponding parts of the opposite side.

Atrophic conditions are also met with, the bones undergoing fatty
atrophy, so that in extreme cases they may be cut with a knife or be
easily fractured. These atrophic conditions are most marked in bedridden
patients, and are largely due to disuse of the limb; they are recovered
from if it is able to resume its functions.

#Clinical Features.#--These vary with the different anatomical forms of
the disease, and with the joint affected.

Sometimes the disease is ushered in by a febrile attack attended with
pains in several joints--described by John Duncan as _tuberculous
arthritic fever_. This is liable to be mistaken for rheumatic fever,
from which, however, it differs in that there is no real migration from
joint to joint; there is an absence of sweating and of cardiac
complications; and no benefit follows the administration of salicylates.

In exceptional cases, tuberculous joint disease follows an acute course
resembling that of the pyogenic arthritis of infants. This has been
observed in children, especially in the knee, the lesion being in the
synovial membrane, and attended with an accumulation of pus in the
joint. If promptly treated by incision and drainage, recovery is rapid,
and free movement of the joint, may be preserved.

The onset and early stages of tuberculous disease, however, are more
often insidious, and are attended with so few symptoms that the disease
may have obtained a considerable hold before it attracts notice. It is
not uncommon for patients or their friends to attribute the condition to
injury, as it often first attracts attention after some slight trauma or
excessive use of the limb. The symptoms usually subside under rest, only
to relapse again with use of the limb.

The initial local symptoms may be due to the presence of a focus in the
neighbouring bone, perhaps causing neuralgic pains in the joint, or
weakness, tiredness, stiffness, and inability to use the limb, these
symptoms improving with rest and being aggravated by exertion.

It is rarely possible by external examination to recognise deep-seated
osseous foci in the vicinity of joints; but if they are near the surface
in a superficial bone--such as the head of the tibia--there may be local
thickening of the periosteum, oedema, pain, and tenderness on pressure
and on percussion.

_X-ray Appearances of Tuberculous Joints._--Gross lesions such as
caseous foci in the marrow of the adjacent bone show as clear areas with
an ill-defined margin; a sclerosed focus gives a denser shadow than the
surrounding bone, and a sequestrum presents a dark shadow of irregular
contour, and a clear interval between it and the surrounding bone.

Caries of the articular surface imparts a woolly appearance or irregular
contour in place of the well-defined outline of the articular end of the
bone. In bony ankylosis the shadow of the two bones is a continuous one,
the joint interval having been filled up. The minor changes are best
appreciated on comparison with the normal joint of the other limb.

_Wasting of muscles_ is a constant accompaniment of tuberculous joint
disease. It is to be attributed partly to want of use, but chiefly to
reflex interference with the trophic innervation of the muscles. It is
specially well seen in the extensor and adductor muscles of the thigh in
disease of the knee, and in the deltoid in disease of the shoulder. The
muscles become soft and flaccid, they exhibit t