own by the fact that it is relieved by elevation of the
limb. When the whole length of the main trunk of the great saphena is
implicated, the pressure in the vein is high and the patient suffers a
good deal of pain and discomfort. When, on the contrary, the upper part
of the saphena and its valves are intact, and only the more distal veins
are involved, the pressure is not so high and there is comparatively
little suffering. The usual complaint is of a sense of weight and
fulness in the limb after standing or walking, sometimes accompanied by
actual pain, from which relief is at once obtained by raising the limb.
Cramp-like pains in the muscles are often associated with varix of the
deep veins.

The dilated and tortuous vein can be readily seen and felt when the
patient is examined in the upright posture. In advanced cases, bead-like
swellings are sometimes to be detected over the position of the valves,
and, on running the fingers along the course of the vessel, a firm
ridge, due to periphlebitis, may be detected on each side of the vein.
When the limb is oedematous, the outline of the veins is obscured, but
they can be identified on palpation as gutter-like tracks. When large
veins are implicated, a distinct impulse on coughing may be seen to pass
down as far as the knee; and if the vessel is sharply percussed a fluid
wave may be detected passing both up and down the vein.

If the patient is placed on a couch and the limb elevated, the veins are
emptied, and if pressure is then made over the region of the saphenous
opening and the patient allowed to stand up, so long as the great
saphena system alone is involved, the veins fill again very slowly from
below. If the small saphena system also is involved, and if
communicating branches are dilated, the veins fill up from below more
rapidly. When the pressure over the saphenous opening is removed, the
blood rapidly rushes into the varicose vessels from above; this is known
as Trendelenburg's test.

The most marked dilatation usually occurs on the medial side of the
limb, between the middle of the thigh and the middle of the calf, the
arrangement of the veins showing great variety (Fig. 67).

There are usually one or more bunches of enlarged and tortuous veins in
the region of the knee. Frequently a large branch establishes a
communication between the systems of the great and small saphenous veins
in the region of the popliteal space, or across the front of the upper
part of the tibia. The superficial position of this last branch and its
proximity to the bone render it liable to injury.

[Illustration: FIG. 67.--Extensive Varix of Internal Saphena System on
Left Leg, of many years' standing.]

The small veins of the skin of the ankle and foot often show as fine
blue streaks arranged in a stellate or arborescent manner, especially in
women who have borne children.

_Complications._--When the varix is of long standing, the skin in the
lower part of the leg sometimes assumes a mahogany-brown or bluish hue,
as a result of the _deposit of blood pigment_ in the tissues, and this
is frequently a precursor of ulceration.

_Chronic dermatitis_ (_varicose eczema_) is often met with in the lower
part of the leg, and is due to interference with the nutrition of the
skin. The incompetence of the valves allows the pressure in the varicose
veins to equal that in the arterioles, so that the capillary circulation
is impeded. From the same cause the blood in the deep veins is enabled
to enter the superficial veins, where the backward pressure is so great
that the blood flows down again, and so a vicious circle is established.
The blood therefore loses more and more of its oxygen, and so fails to
nourish the tissues.

The _ulcer_ of the leg associated with varicose veins has already been
described.

_Haemorrhage_ may take place from a varicose vein as a result of a wound
or of ulceration of its wall. Increased intra-venous pressure produced
by severe muscular strain may determine rupture of a vein exposed in the
floor of an ulcer. If the limb is dependent, the incompetency of the
valves permits of rapid and copious bleeding, which may prove fatal,
particularly if the patient is intoxicated when the rupture takes place
and no means are taken to arrest the haemorrhage. The bleeding may be
arrested at once by elevating the limb, or by applying pressure directly
over the bleeding point.

_Phlebitis and thrombosis_ are common sequelae of varix, and may prove
dangerous, either by spreading into the large venous trunks or by giving
rise to emboli. The larger the varix the greater is the tendency for a
thrombus to spread upwards and to involve the deep veins. Thrombi
usually originate in venous cysts or pouches, and at acute bends on the
vessel, especially when these are situated in the vicinity of the knee,
and are subjected to repeated injuries--for example in riding.
Phleboliths sometimes form in such pouches, and may be recognised in a
radiogram. In a certain proportion of cases, esp