nd uneven, and the subjective
symptoms are slight, mobility is little impaired, and yet the deformity
is considerable.

_Syphilitic osteo-arthritis_ results from a gumma in the periosteum or
marrow of one of the adjacent bones. There is gradual enlargement of one
of the bones, the patient complains of pains, which are worst at night.
The disease may extend to the synovial membrane and be attended with
effusion into the joint, or it may erupt on the periosteal surface and
invade the skin, forming one or more sinuses. The further progress is
complicated by the occurrence of pyogenic infection leading to necrosis
of bone, in the knee-joint, for example, the patella or one of the
condyles of the femur or tibia, may furnish a sequestrum. In such cases,
anti-syphilitic treatment must be supplemented by operation for the
removal of the diseased tissues. In the knee, excision is rarely
necessary; but in the elbow it may be called for to obtain a movable
joint.

In #inherited syphilis# the earliest joint affections are those in which
there is an effusion into the joint, especially the knee or elbow; and
in exceptional cases pyogenic infection may be superadded, and pus form
in the joint.

In older children, a gummatous synovitis is met with of which the most
striking features are: its insidious development, its chronic course,
symmetrical distribution, freedom from pain, the free mobility of the
joint, its tendency to relapse, and its association with other
syphilitic stigmata, especially in the eyes. The knees are the joints
most frequently affected, and the condition usually yields readily to
anti-syphilitic treatment without impairment of function.


JOINT DISEASES ACCOMPANYING CERTAIN CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS

#Gout.#--_Arthritis Urica._--One of the manifestations of gout is that
certain joints are liable to attacks of inflammation associated with the
deposit of a chalk-like material composed of sodium biurate, chiefly in
the matrix of the articular cartilage, it may be in streaks or patches
towards the central area of the joint, or throughout the entire extent
of the cartilage, which appears as if it had been painted over with
plaster of Paris. As a result of this uratic infiltration, the cartilage
loses its vitality and crumbles away, leading to the formation of what
are known as gouty ulcers, and these may extend through the cartilage
and invade the bone. The deposit of urates in the synovial membrane is
attended with effusion into the joint and the formation of adhesions,
while in the ligaments and peri-articular structures it leads to the
formation of scar tissue. The metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great
toe, on one or on both sides, is that most frequently affected. The
disease is met with in men after middle life, and while common enough in
England and Ireland, is almost unknown in hospital practice in Scotland.

The _clinical features_ are characteristic. There is a sudden onset of
excruciating pain, usually during the early hours of the morning, the
joint becomes swollen, red, and glistening, with engorgement of the
veins and some fever and disturbance of health and temper. In the course
of a week or ten days there is a gradual return to the normal. Such
attacks may recur only once a year or they may be more frequent; the
successive attacks tend to become less acute but last longer, and the
local phenomena persist, the joint remaining permanently swollen and
stiff. Masses of chalk form in and around the joint, and those in the
subcutaneous tissue may break through the skin, forming indolent ulcers
with exposure of the chalky masses (_tophi_). The hands may become
seriously crippled, especially when the tendon sheaths and bursae also
are affected; the crippling resembles that resulting from arthritis
deformans but it differs in not being symmetrical.

The local _treatment_ consists in employing soothing applications and a
Bier's bandage for two or three hours twice daily while the symptoms are
acute; later, hot-air baths, massage, and exercises are indicated. It is
remarkable how completely even the most deformed joints may recover
their function. Dietetic and medicinal treatment must also be employed.

#Chronic Rheumatism.#--This term is applied to a condition which
sometimes follows upon acute articular rheumatism in persons presenting
a family tendency to acute rheumatism or to inflammations of serous
membranes, and manifesting other evidence of the rheumatic taint, such
as chorea or rheumatic nodules.

The changes in the joints involve almost exclusively the synovial
membrane and the ligaments; they consist in cellular infiltration and
exudation, resulting in the formation of new connective tissue which
encroaches on the cavity of the joint and gives rise to adhesions, and
by contracting causes stiffness and deformity. The articular cartilages
may subsequently be transformed into connective tissue, with consequent
fibrous ankylosis and obliteration of the joint. The bones are affected
only in so 