on.
Osseous ankylosis may occur, especially in the small joints of the hand
and foot.

The disease is generally poly-articular and may be met with in childhood
and youth as well as in adult life. In some cases pain is so severe that
the patient resists the least attempt at movement. In others, the
joints, although stiff, can be moved but exhibit pronounced crackings.
When there is much connective tissue formed in relation to the synovial
membrane, the joint is swollen, and as the muscles waste above and
below, the swelling is spindle-shaped. Subacute exacerbations occur from
time to time, with fever and aggravation of the local symptoms and
implication of other joints. After repeated recurrences, there is
ankylosis with deformity, the patient becoming a helpless cripple. On
account of the tendency to visceral complications, the tenure of life is
uncertain.

From the nature of the disease, _treatment_ is for the most part
palliative. Salicylates are only of service during the exacerbations
attended with pyrexia. The application of soda fomentations, turpentine
cloths, or electric or hot-air baths may be useful. Improvement may
result from the general and local therapeutics available at such places
as Bath, Buxton, Harrogate, Strathpeffer, Wiesbaden, or Aix. In selected
cases, a certain measure of success has followed operative interference,
which consists in a modified excision. The deformities resulting from
chronic rheumatism are but little amenable to surgical treatment, and
forcible attempts to remedy stiffness or deformity are to be avoided.

#Arthritis Deformans# (_Osteo-arthritis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Rheumatic
Gout, Malum Senile, Traumatic or Mechanical Arthritis_).--Under the term
arthritis deformans, which was first employed by Virchow, it is
convenient to include a number of joint affections which have many
anatomical and clinical features in common.

The disease is widely distributed in the animal kingdom, both in
domestic species and in wild animals in the natural state such as the
larger carnivora and the gorilla; evidence of it has also been found in
the bones of animals buried with prehistoric man.

The morbid changes in the joints present a remarkable combination of
atrophy and degeneration on the one hand and overgrowth on the other,
indicating a profound disturbance of nutrition in the joint structures.
The nature of this disturbance and its etiology are imperfectly known.
By many writers it is believed to depend upon some form of
auto-intoxication, the toxins being absorbed from the gastro-intestinal
tract, and those who suffer are supposed to possess what has been called
an "arthritic diathesis."

The localisation of the disease in a particular joint may be determined
by several factors, of which trauma appears to be the most important.
The condition is frequently observed to follow, either directly or after
an interval, upon a lesion which involves gross injury of the joint or
of one of the neighbouring bones. It occurs with greater frequency after
repeated minor injuries affecting the joint and its vicinity, such as
sprains and contusions, and particularly those sustained in laborious
occupations. This connection between trauma and arthritis deformans led
Arbuthnot Lane to apply to it the term _traumatic_ or _trade arthritis_.

The traumatic or strain factor in the production of the disease may be
manifested in a less obvious fashion. In the lower extremity, for
example, _any condition which disturbs the static equilibrium of the
limb as a whole_ would appear to predispose to the disease in one or
other of the joints. The static equilibrium may be disturbed by such
deformities as flat-foot or knock-knee, and badly united fractures of
the lower extremity. In hallux valgus, the metatarso-phalangeal joint of
the great toe undergoes changes characteristic of arthritis deformans.

A number of cases have been recorded in which arthritis deformans has
followed upon antecedent disease of the joint, such as pyogenic or
gonorrhoeal synovitis, upon repeated haemorrhages into the knee-joint in
bleeders, and in unreduced dislocations in which a new joint has been
established.

[Illustration: FIG. 157.--Arthritis Deformans of Elbow, showing
destruction of articular surfaces and masses of new bone around the
articular margins.

(Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)]

Lastly, Poncet and other members of the Lyons school regard arthritis
deformans as due to an attenuated form of tuberculous infection, and
draw attention to the fact that a tuberculous family history is often
met with in the subjects of the disease.

[Illustration: FIG. 158.--Arthritis Deformans of Knee, showing
eburnation and grooving of articular surfaces.

(Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)]

_Morbid Anatomy._--The commonest type is that in which the articular
surfaces undergo degenerative changes. The primary change involves the
articular cartilage, which becomes softened and fibrillated and is worn
away until the