 prevailing doctrine of the planting
statesmen.

Their antagonism was deepened because they also became convinced, on
what grounds it is not necessary to inquire, that the leaders of the
industrial interest thus opposed to planting formed a consolidated
"aristocracy of wealth," bent upon the pursuit and attainment of
political power at Washington. "By the aid of various associated
interests," continued McDuffie, "the manufacturing capitalists have
obtained a complete and permanent control over the legislation of
Congress on this subject [the tariff].... Men confederated together upon
selfish and interested principles, whether in pursuit of the offices or
the bounties of the government, are ever more active and vigilant than
the great majority who act from disinterested and patriotic impulses.
Have we not witnessed it on this floor, sir? Who ever knew the tariff
men to divide on any question affecting their confederated interests?...
The watchword is, stick together, right or wrong upon every question
affecting the common cause. Such, sir, is the concert and vigilance and
such the combinations by which the manufacturing party, acting upon the
interests of some and the prejudices of others, have obtained a decided
and permanent control over public opinion in all the tariff states."
Thus, as the Southern statesman would have it, the North, in matters
affecting national policies, was ruled by a "confederated interest"
which menaced the planting interest. As the former grew in magnitude and
attached to itself the free farmers of the West through channels of
trade and credit, it followed as night the day that in time the planters
would be overshadowed and at length overborne in the struggle of giants.
Whether the theory was sound or not, Southern statesmen believed it and
acted upon it.


=References=

M. Beard, _Short History of the American Labor Movement_.

E.L. Bogart, _Economic History of the United States_.

J.R. Commons, _History of Labour in the United States_ (2 vols.).

E.R. Johnson, _American Railway Transportation_.

C.D. Wright, _Industrial Evolution of the United States_.


=Questions=

1. What signs pointed to a complete Democratic triumph in 1852?

2. What is the explanation of the extraordinary industrial progress of
America?

3. Compare the planting system with the factory system.

4. In what sections did industry flourish before the Civil War? Why?

5. Show why transportation is so vital to modern industry and
agriculture.

6. Explain how it was possible to secure so many people to labor in
American industries.

7. Trace the steps in the rise of organized labor before 1860.

8. What political and economic reforms did labor demand?

9. Why did the East and the South seek closer ties with the West?

10. Describe the economic forces which were drawing the East and the
West together.

11. In what way was the South economically dependent upon the North?

12 State the national policies generally favored in the North and
condemned in the South.

13. Show how economic conditions in the South were unfavorable to
industry.

14. Give the Southern explanation of the antagonism between the North
and the South.


=Research Topics=

=The Inventions.=--Assign one to each student. Satisfactory accounts are
to be found in any good encyclopedia, especially the Britannica.

=River and Lake Commerce.=--Callender, _Economic History of the United
States_, pp. 313-326.

=Railways and Canals.=--Callender, pp. 326-344; 359-387. Coman,
_Industrial History of the United States_, pp. 216-225.

=The Growth of Industry, 1815-1840.=--Callender, pp. 459-471. From 1850
to 1860, Callender, pp. 471-486.

=Early Labor Conditions.=--Callender, pp. 701-718.

=Early Immigration.=--Callender, pp. 719-732.

=Clay's Home Market Theory of the Tariff.=--Callender, pp. 498-503.

=The New England View of the Tariff.=--Callender, pp. 503-514.




CHAPTER XIV

THE PLANTING SYSTEM AND NATIONAL POLITICS


James Madison, the father of the federal Constitution, after he had
watched for many days the battle royal in the national convention of
1787, exclaimed that the contest was not between the large and the small
states, but between the commercial North and the planting South. From
the inauguration of Washington to the election of Lincoln the sectional
conflict, discerned by this penetrating thinker, exercised a profound
influence on the course of American politics. It was latent during the
"era of good feeling" when the Jeffersonian Republicans adopted
Federalist policies; it flamed up in the contest between the Democrats
and Whigs. Finally it raged in the angry political quarrel which
culminated in the Civil War.


SLAVERY--NORTH AND SOUTH

=The Decline of Slavery in the North.=--At the time of the adoption of
the Constitution, slavery was lawful in all the Northern states except
Massachusetts. There were almost as many bondmen in New York as in
Georgia. New Jersey had more than Delaware or Tennessee, indeed nearly
as many as both combined. All