 should be chosen by the legislatures of the states. In
practice this rule transferred the selection of Senators to secret
caucuses of party members in the state legislatures. In connection with
these caucuses there had been many scandals, some direct proofs of
brazen bribery and corruption, and dark hints besides. The Senate was
called by its detractors "a millionaires' club" and it was looked upon
as the "citadel of conservatism." The prescription in this case was
likewise "more democracy"--direct election of Senators by popular vote.

This reform was not a new idea. It had been proposed in Congress as
early as 1826. President Johnson, an ardent advocate, made it the
subject of a special message in 1868 Not long afterward it appeared in
Congress. At last in 1893, the year after the great Populist upheaval,
the House of Representatives by the requisite two-thirds vote
incorporated it in an amendment to the federal Constitution. Again and
again it passed the House; but the Senate itself was obdurate. Able
Senators leveled their batteries against it. Mr. Hoar of Massachusetts
declared that it would transfer the seat of power to the "great cities
and masses of population"; that it would "overthrow the whole scheme of
the Senate and in the end the whole scheme of the national Constitution
as designed and established by the framers of the Constitution and the
people who adopted it."

Failing in the Senate, advocates of popular election made a rear assault
through the states. They induced state legislatures to enact laws
requiring the nomination of candidates for the Senate by the direct
primary, and then they bound the legislatures to abide by the popular
choice. Nevada took the lead in 1899. Shortly afterward Oregon, by the
use of the initiative and referendum, practically bound legislators to
accept the popular nominee and the country witnessed the spectacle of a
Republican legislature "electing" a Democrat to represent the state in
the Senate at Washington. By 1910 three-fourths of the states had
applied the direct primary in some form to the choice of Senators. Men
selected by that method began to pour in upon the floors of Congress;
finally in 1912 the two-thirds majority was secured for an amendment to
the federal Constitution providing for the popular election of Senators.
It was quickly ratified by the states. The following year it was
proclaimed in effect.

=The Initiative and Referendum.=--As a corrective for the evils which
had grown up in state legislatures there arose a demand for the
introduction of a Swiss device known as the initiative and referendum.
The initiative permits any one to draw up a proposed bill; and, on
securing a certain number of signatures among the voters, to require the
submission of the measure to the people at an election. If the bill thus
initiated receives a sufficient majority, it becomes a law. The
referendum allows citizens who disapprove any act passed by the
legislature to get up a petition against it and thus bring about a
reference of the measure to the voters at the polls for approval or
rejection. These two practices constitute a form of "direct government."

These devices were prescribed "to restore the government to the people."
The Populists favored them in their platform of 1896. Mr. Bryan, two
years later, made them a part of his program, and in the same year South
Dakota adopted them. In 1902 Oregon, after a strenuous campaign, added a
direct legislation amendment to the state constitution. Within ten years
all the Southwestern, Mountain, and Pacific states, except Texas and
Wyoming, had followed this example. To the east of the Mississippi,
however, direct legislation met a chilly reception. By 1920 only five
states in this section had accepted it: Maine, Massachusetts, Ohio,
Michigan, and Maryland, the last approving the referendum only.

=The Recall.=--Executive officers and judges, as well as legislatures,
had come in for their share of criticism, and it was proposed that they
should likewise be subjected to a closer scrutiny by the public. For
this purpose there was advanced a scheme known as the recall--which
permitted a certain percentage of the voters to compel any officer, at
any time during his term, to go before the people at a new election.
This feature of direct government, tried out first in the city of Los
Angeles, was extended to state-wide uses in Oregon in 1908. It failed,
however, to capture popular imagination to the same degree as the
initiative and referendum. At the end of ten years' agitation, only ten
states, mainly in the West, had adopted it for general purposes, and
four of them did not apply it to the judges of the courts. Still it was
extensively acclaimed in cities and incorporated into hundreds of
municipal laws and charters.

As a general proposition, direct government in all its forms was
bitterly opposed by men of a conservative cast of mind. It was denounced
by Senator Henry Cabot Lodge as "nothing less than a complete rev