ll of Osteo-Sarcoma of Upper Third
of Femur, after maceration.]

The soft parts over the tumour for a long time preserve their normal
appearance; or they become oedematous, and the subcutaneous venous
network is evident through the skin. Elevation of the temperature over
the tumour, which may amount to two degrees or more, is a point of
diagnostic significance, as it suggests an inflammatory lesion.

The adjacent joint usually remains intact, although its movements may be
impaired by the bulk of the tumour or by effusion into the cavity.

Enlargement of the neighbouring lymph glands does not necessarily imply
that they have become infected with sarcoma for the enlargement may
disappear after removal of the primary growth; actual infection of the
glands, however, does sometimes occur, and in them the histological
structure of the parent tumour is reproduced.

To obtain a reasonable prospect of cure, the _diagnosis_ must be made at
an early stage. Great reliance is to be placed on information gained by
examination with the X-rays.

[Illustration: FIG. 151.--Radiogram of Osteo-Sarcoma of Upper Third
of Femur.]

_X-ray Appearances._--In periosteal tumours that do not ossify, there is
merely erosion of bone, and the shadow is not unlike that given by
caries; in ossifying tumours, the arrangement of the new bone on the
surface is characteristic, and when it takes the form of spicules at
right angles to the shaft, it is pathognomic.

In soft central tumours, there is disappearance of bone shadow in the
area of the tumour, while above and below or around this, the shadow is
that of normal bone right up to the clear area. In many respects the
X-ray appearances resemble those of myeloma. In tumours in which there
is a considerable amount of imperfectly formed new bone, this gives a
shadow which barely replaces that of the original bone, in parts it may
even add to it--the resulting picture differing widely in different
cases; but it is usually possible to differentiate it from that caused
by bacterial infections of the bone and from lesions of the adjacent
joint.

[Illustration: FIG. 152.--Radiogram of Chondro-Sarcoma of Upper End of
Humerus in a woman aet. 29.]

Skiagraphy is not only of assistance in differentiating new growths from
other diseases of bone, but may also yield information as to the
situation and nature of the tumour, which may have important bearings on
its treatment by operation.

When fracture of a long bone takes place in an adolescent or young adult
from comparatively slight violence, disease of the bone should be
suspected and an X-ray examination made.

In difficult cases the final appeal is to exploratory incision and
microscopical examination of a portion of the tumour; this should be
done when the major operation has been arranged for, the surgeon waiting
until the examination is completed.

The _prognosis_ varies widely. In general, it may be said that
periosteal tumours are less favourable than central ones, because they
are more liable to give rise to metastases. Permanent cures are
unfortunately the exception.

_Treatment._--When one of the bones of a limb is involved, the usual
practice has been to perform amputation well above the growth, and this
may still be recommended as a routine procedure. There are reasons,
however, which may be urged against its continuance. High amputation is
unnecessary in the more benign sarcomas, and in the more malignant forms
is usually unavailing to prevent a fatal issue either from local
recurrence or from metastases in the lungs or elsewhere. Following
the lead of Mikulicz, a considerable number of permanent cures have been
obtained by resecting the portion of bone which is the seat of the
tumour, and substituting for it a corresponding portion from the tibia
or fibula of the other limb. In a cellular sarcoma of the humerus of a
boy we resected the shaft and inserted his fibula ten years ago, and he
shows no sign of recurrence. When resection is impracticable, a
subcapsular enucleation is performed, followed by the insertion of
radium.

#Pulsating Haematoma# or #Aneurysm of Bone#.--A limited number of these
are innocent cavernous tumours dating from a congenital angioma. The
majority would appear to be the result of changes in a sarcoma,
endothelioma, or myeloma. The tumour tissue largely disappears, while
the vessels and vascular spaces undergo a remarkable development. The
tumour may come to be represented by one large blood-containing space
communicating with the arteries of the limb; the walls of the space
consist of the remains of the original tumour, plus a shell of bone of
varying thickness. The most common seats of the condition are the lower
end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia, and the bones of the
pelvis.

The _clinical features_ are those of a pulsating tumour of slow
development, and as in true aneurysm, the pulsation and bruit disappear
on compression of the main artery. The origin of the tumour from bone
may be revealed by the pr