irds vote was
secured; the resolution was carried and transmitted to the states for
ratification. On August 28, 1920, the thirty-sixth state, Tennessee,
approved the amendment, making three-fourths of the states as required
by the Constitution. Thus woman suffrage became the law of the land. A
new political democracy had been created. The age of agitation was
closed and the epoch of responsible citizenship opened.


=General References=

Edith Abbott, _Women in Industry_.

C.P. Gilman, _Woman and Economics_.

I.H. Harper, _Life and Work of Susan B. Anthony_.

E.R. Hecker, _Short History of Woman's Rights_.

S.B. Anthony and I.H. Harper, _History of Woman Suffrage_ (4 vols.).

J.W. Taylor, _Before Vassar Opened_.

A.H. Shaw, _The Story of a Pioneer_.


=Research Topics=

=The Rise of the Woman Suffrage Movement.=--McMaster, _History of the
People of the United States_, Vol. VIII, pp. 116-121; K. Porter,
_History of Suffrage in the United States_, pp. 135-145.

=The Development of the Suffrage Movement.=--Porter, pp. 228-254; Ogg,
_National Progress_ (American Nation Series), pp. 151-156 and p. 382.

=Women's Labor in the Colonial Period.=--E. Abbott, _Women in Industry_,
pp. 10-34.

=Women and the Factory System.=--Abbott, pp. 35-62.

=Early Occupations for Women.=--Abbott, pp. 63-85.

=Women's Wages.=--Abbott, pp. 262-316.


=Questions=

1. Why were women involved in the reform movements of the new century?

2. What is history? What determines the topics that appear in written
history?

3. State the position of women under the old common law.

4. What part did women play in the intellectual movement that preceded
the American Revolution?

5. Explain the rise of the discussion of women's rights.

6. What were some of the early writings about women?

7. Why was there a struggle for educational opportunities?

8. How did reform movements draw women into public affairs and what were
the chief results?

9. Show how the rise of the factory affected the life and labor of
women.

10. Why is the year 1848 an important year in the woman movement?
Discuss the work of the Seneca Falls convention.

11. Enumerate some of the early gains in civil liberty for women.

12. Trace the rise of the suffrage movement. Show the effect of the
Civil War.

13. Review the history of the federal suffrage amendment.

14. Summarize the history of the suffrage in the states.




CHAPTER XXIV

INDUSTRIAL DEMOCRACY


=The New Economic Age.=--The spirit of criticism and the measures of
reform designed to meet it, which characterized the opening years of the
twentieth century, were merely the signs of a new age. The nation had
definitely passed into industrialism. The number of city dwellers
employed for wages as contrasted with the farmers working on their own
land was steadily mounting. The free land, once the refuge of restless
workingmen of the East and the immigrants from Europe, was a thing of
the past. As President Roosevelt later said in speaking of the great
coal strike, "a few generations ago, the American workman could have
saved money, gone West, and taken up a homestead. Now the free lands
were gone. In earlier days, a man who began with a pick and shovel might
come to own a mine. That outlet was now closed as regards the immense
majority.... The majority of men who earned wages in the coal industry,
if they wished to progress at all, were compelled to progress not by
ceasing to be wage-earners but by improving the conditions under which
all the wage-earners of the country lived and worked."

The disappearance of the free land, President Roosevelt went on to say,
also produced "a crass inequality in the bargaining relation of the
employer and the individual employee standing alone. The great
coal-mining and coal-carrying companies which employed their tens of
thousands could easily dispense with the services of any particular
miner. The miner, on the other hand, however expert, could not dispense
with the companies. He needed a job; his wife and children would starve
if he did not get one.... Individually the miners were impotent when
they sought to enter a wage contract with the great companies; they
could make fair terms only by uniting into trade unions to bargain
collectively." It was of this state of affairs that President Taft spoke
when he favored the modification of the common law "so as to put
employees of little power and means on a level with their employers in
adjusting and agreeing upon their mutual obligations."

John D. Rockefeller, Jr., on the side of the great captains of industry,
recognized the same facts. He said: "In the early days of the
development of industry, the employer and capital investor were
frequently one. Daily contact was had between him and his employees, who
were his friends and neighbors.... Because of the proportions which
modern industry has attained, employers and employees are too often
strangers to each other.... Personal relations can be revived only
through adequate representation of th