
aneurysmal varix, and at the same time incising the sac, turning out the
clots, and ligating any branches which open into the sac. If it can be
avoided, the vein should not be ligated.


ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES

#Thoracic Aneurysm.#--All varieties of aneurysm occur in the aorta, the
fusiform being the most common, although a sacculated aneurysm
frequently springs from a fusiform dilatation.

The _clinical features_ depend chiefly on the direction in which the
aneurysm enlarges, and are not always well marked even when the sac is
of considerable size. They consist in a pulsatile swelling--sometimes in
the supra-sternal notch, but usually towards the right side of the
sternum--with an increased area of dulness on percussion. With the
X-rays a dark shadow is seen corresponding to the sac. Pain is usually a
prominent symptom, and is largely referable to the pressure of the
aneurysm on the vertebrae or the sternum, causing erosion of these bones.
Pressure on the thoracic veins and on the air-passage causes cyanosis
and dyspnoea. When the oesophagus is pressed upon, the patient may have
difficulty in swallowing. The left recurrent nerve may be stretched or
pressed upon as it hooks round the arch of the aorta, and hoarseness of
the voice and a characteristic "brassy" cough may result from paralysis
of the muscles of the larynx which it supplies. The vagus, the phrenic,
and the spinal nerves may also be pressed upon. When the aneurysm is on
the transverse part of the arch, the trachea is pulled down with each
beat of the heart--a clinical phenomena known as the "tracheal tug."
Aneurysm of the descending aorta may, after eroding the bodies of the
vertebrae (Fig. 71) and posterior portions of the ribs, form a swelling
in the back to the left of the spine.

Inasmuch as obliteration of the sac and the feeding artery is out of the
question, surgical treatment is confined to causing coagulation of the
blood in an extension or pouching of the sac, which, making its way
through the parietes of the chest, threatens to rupture externally. This
may be achieved by Macewen's needles or by the introduction of wire into
the sac. We have had cases under observation in which the treatment
referred to has been followed by such an amount of improvement that the
patient has been able to resume a laborious occupation for one or more
years. Christopher Heath found that improvement followed ligation of the
left common carotid in aneurysm of the transverse part of the aortic
arch.

[Illustration: FIG. 74.--Thoracic Aneurysm, threatening to rupture
externally, but prevented from doing so by Macewen's needling. The
needles were left in for forty-eight hours.]

#Abdominal Aneurysm.#--Aneurysm is much less frequent in the abdominal
than in the thoracic aorta. While any of the large branches in the
abdomen may be affected, the most common seats are in the aorta itself,
just above the origin of the coeliac artery and at the bifurcation.

The _clinical features_ vary with the site of the aneurysm and with its
rapidity and direction of growth. A smooth, rounded swelling, which
exhibits expansile pulsation, forms, usually towards the left of the
middle line. It may extend upwards under cover of the ribs, downwards
towards the pelvis, or backward towards the loin. On palpation a
systolic thrill may be detected, but the presence of a murmur is neither
constant nor characteristic. Pain is usually present; it may be
neuralgic in character, or may simulate renal colic. When the aneurysm
presses on the vertebrae and erodes them, the symptoms simulate those of
spinal caries, particularly if, as sometimes happens, symptoms of
compression paraplegia ensue. In its growth the swelling may press upon
and displace the adjacent viscera, and so interfere with their
functions.

The _diagnosis_ has to be made from solid or cystic tumours overlying
the artery; from a "pulsating aorta"; and from spinal caries; much help
is obtained by the use of the X-rays.

The condition usually proves fatal, either by the aneurysm bursting into
the peritoneal cavity, or by slow leakage into the retro-peritoneal
tissue.

The Moore-Corradi method has been successfully employed, access to the
sac having been obtained by opening the abdomen. Ligation of the aorta
has so far been unsuccessful, but in one case operated upon by Keen the
patient survived forty-eight days.

#Innominate aneurysm# may be of the fusiform or of the sacculated
variety, and is frequently associated with pouching of the aorta. It
usually grows upwards and laterally, projecting above the sternum and
right clavicle, which may be eroded or displaced (Fig. 75). Symptoms of
pressure on the structures in the neck, similar to those produced by
aortic aneurysm, occur. The pulses in the right upper extremity and in
the right carotid and its branches are diminished and delayed. Pressure
on the right brachial plexus causes shooting pain down the arm and
muscular paresis on that side. Vaso-motor disturbances and co