il continuity with the central end has been
re-established.

_If the wound becomes infected_ and suppuration occurs, the young nerve
fibres are destroyed and efficient regeneration is prevented; the
formation of scar tissue also may constitute a permanent obstacle to new
nerve fibres bridging the gap.

_When the ends are not in contact_, reunion of the divided nerve fibres
does not take place whether the wound is infected or not. At the
proximal end there forms a bulbous swelling, which becomes adherent to
the scar tissue. It consists of branching axis cylinders running in all
directions, these having failed to reach the distal end because of the
extent of the gap. The peripheral end is completely degenerated, and is
represented by a fibrous cord, the cut end of which is often slightly
swollen or bulbous, and is also incorporated with the scar tissue of
the wound.

#Clinical Features.#--The symptoms resulting from division and non-union
of a nerve-trunk necessarily vary with the functions of the affected
nerve. The following description refers to a mixed sensori-motor trunk,
such as the median or radial (musculo-spiral) nerve.

_Sensory Phenomena._--Superficial touch is tested by means of a wisp of
cotton wool stroked gently across the skin; the capacity of
discriminating two points as separate, by a pair of blunt-pointed
compasses; the sensation of pressure, by means of a pencil or other
blunt object; of pain, by pricking or scratching with a needle; and of
sensibility to heat and cold, by test-tubes containing water at
different temperatures. While these tests are being carried out, the
patient's eyes are screened off.

After division of a nerve containing sensory fibres, there is an area of
absolute cutaneous insensibility to touch (anaesthesia), to pain
(analgesia), and to all degrees of temperature--_loss of protopathic
sensibility_; surrounded by an area in which there is loss of sensation
to light touch, inability to recognise minor differences of temperature
(72 o-104 o F.), and to appreciate as separate impressions the contact of
the two points of a compass--_loss of epicritic sensibility_ (Head and
Sherren) (Figs. 91, 92).

_Motor Phenomena._--There is immediate and complete loss of voluntary
power in the muscles supplied by the divided nerve. The muscles rapidly
waste, and within from three to five days, they cease to react to the
faradic current. When tested with the galvanic current, it is found that
a stronger current must be used to call forth contraction than in a
healthy muscle, and the contraction appears first at the closing of the
circuit when the anode is used as the testing electrode. The loss of
excitability to the interrupted current, and the specific alteration in
the type of contraction with the constant current, is known as the
_reaction of degeneration_. After a few weeks all electric excitability
is lost. The paralysed muscles undergo fatty degeneration, which attains
its maximum three or four months after the division of the nerve.
Further changes may take place, and result in the transformation of the
muscle into fibrous tissue, which by undergoing shortening may cause
deformity known as _paralytic contracture_.

_Vaso-motor Phenomena._--In the majority of cases there is an initial
rise in the temperature of the part (2 o to 3 o F.), with redness and
increased vascularity. This is followed by a fall in the local
temperature, which may amount to 8 o or 10 o F., the parts becoming pale
and cold. Sometimes the hyperaemia resulting from vaso-motor paralysis is
more persistent, and is associated with swelling of the parts from
oedema--the so-called _angio-neurotic oedema_. The vascularity varies with
external influences, and in cold weather the parts present a bluish
appearance.

_Trophic Phenomena._--Owing to the disappearance of the subcutaneous
fat, the skin is smooth and thin, and may be abnormally dry. The hair is
harsh, dry, and easily shed. The nails become brittle and furrowed, or
thick and curved, and the ends of the fingers become club-shaped. Skin
eruptions, especially in the form of blisters, occur, or there may be
actual ulcers of the skin, especially in winter. In aggravated cases the
tips of the fingers disappear from progressive ulceration, and in the
sole of the foot a perforating ulcer may develop. Arthropathies are
occasionally met with, the joints becoming the seat of a painless
effusion or hydrops, which is followed by fibrous thickening of the
capsular and other ligaments, and terminates in stiffness and fibrous
ankylosis. In this way the fingers are seriously crippled and deformed.

#Treatment of Divided Nerves.#--The treatment consists in approximating
the divided ends of the nerve and placing them under the most favourable
conditions for repair, and this should be done at the earliest possible
opportunity. (_Op. Surg._, pp. 45, 46.)

#Primary Suture.#--The reunion of a recently divided nerve is spoken of
as primary suture, and for its success asepsis is ess