 faith and their practice of allowing a man to have
more than one wife, they fell in heartily with the suggestion of a new
leader, Brigham Young, that they go into the Far West beyond the plains
of Kansas--into the forlorn desert where the wicked would cease from
troubling and the weary could be at rest, as they read in the Bible. In
1847, Young, with a company of picked men, searched far and wide until
he found a suitable spot overlooking the Salt Lake Valley. Returning to
Illinois, he gathered up his followers, now numbering several thousand,
and in one mighty wagon caravan they all went to their distant haven.

_Brigham Young and His Economic System._--In Brigham Young the Mormons
had a leader of remarkable power who gave direction to the redemption of
the arid soil, the management of property, and the upbuilding of
industry. He promised them to make the desert blossom as the rose, and
verily he did it. He firmly shaped the enterprise of the colony along
co-operative lines, holding down the speculator and profiteer with one
hand and giving encouragement to the industrious poor with the other.
With the shrewdness befitting a good business man, he knew how to draw
the line between public and private interest. Land was given outright to
each family, but great care was exercised in the distribution so that
none should have great advantage over another. The purchase of supplies
and the sale of produce were carried on through a cooperative store, the
profits of which went to the common good. Encountering for the first
time in the history of the Anglo-Saxon race the problem of aridity, the
Mormons surmounted the most perplexing obstacles with astounding skill.
They built irrigation works by cooperative labor and granted water
rights to all families on equitable terms.

_The Growth of Industries._--Though farming long remained the major
interest of the colony, the Mormons, eager to be self-supporting in
every possible way, bent their efforts also to manufacturing and later
to mining. Their missionaries, who hunted in the highways and byways of
Europe for converts, never failed to stress the economic advantages of
the sect. "We want," proclaimed President Young to all the earth, "a
company of woolen manufacturers to come with machinery and take the wool
from the sheep and convert it into the best clothes. We want a company
of potters; we need them; the clay is ready and the dishes wanted.... We
want some men to start a furnace forthwith; the iron, coal, and molders
are waiting.... We have a printing press and any one who can take good
printing and writing paper to the Valley will be a blessing to
themselves and the church." Roads and bridges were built; millions were
spent in experiments in agriculture and manufacturing; missionaries at a
huge cost were maintained in the East and in Europe; an army was kept
for defense against the Indians; and colonies were planted in the
outlying regions. A historian of Deseret, as the colony was called by
the Mormons, estimated in 1895 that by the labor of their hands the
people had produced nearly half a billion dollars in wealth since the
coming of the vanguard.

_Polygamy Forbidden._--The hope of the Mormons that they might forever
remain undisturbed by outsiders was soon dashed to earth, for hundreds
of farmers and artisans belonging to other religious sects came to
settle among them. In 1850 the colony was so populous and prosperous
that it was organized into a territory of the United States and brought
under the supervision of the federal government. Protests against
polygamy were raised in the colony and at the seat of authority three
thousand miles away at Washington. The new Republican party in 1856
proclaimed it "the right and duty of Congress to prohibit in the
Territories those twin relics of barbarism, polygamy and slavery." In
due time the Mormons had to give up their marriage practices which were
condemned by the common opinion of all western civilization; but they
kept their religious faith. Monuments to their early enterprise are seen
in the Temple and the Tabernacle, the irrigation works, and the great
wealth of the Church.


SUMMARY OF WESTERN DEVELOPMENT AND NATIONAL POLITICS

While the statesmen of the old generation were solving the problems of
their age, hunters, pioneers, and home seekers were preparing new
problems beyond the Alleghanies. The West was rising in population and
wealth. Between 1783 and 1829, eleven states were added to the original
thirteen. All but two were in the West. Two of them were in the
Louisiana territory beyond the Mississippi. Here the process of
colonization was repeated. Hardy frontier people cut down the forests,
built log cabins, laid out farms, and cut roads through the wilderness.
They began a new civilization just as the immigrants to Virginia or
Massachusetts had done two centuries earlier.

Like the seaboard colonists before them, they too cherished the spirit
of independence and power. They had not gone far upon their