 changes. The primary change involves the
articular cartilage, which becomes softened and fibrillated and is worn
away until the subjacent bone is exposed. If the bone is rarefied, the
enlarged cancellous spaces are opened into and an eroded and worm-eaten
appearance is brought about; with further use of the joint, the bone is
worn away, so that in a ball-and-socket joint like the hip, the head of
the femur and the acetabulum are markedly altered in size and shape.
More commonly, the bone exposed as a result of disappearance of the
cartilage is denser than normal, and under the influence of the
movements of the joint, becomes smooth and polished--a change described
as _eburnation_ of the articular surfaces (Fig. 158). In hinge-joints
such as the knee and elbow, the influence of movement is shown by a
series of parallel grooves corresponding to the lines of friction
(Fig. 158).

[Illustration: FIG. 159.--Hypertrophied Fringes of Synovial Membrane in
Arthritis Deformans of Knee.

(Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)]

While these degenerative changes are gradually causing destruction of
the articular surfaces, reparative and hypertrophic changes are taking
place at the periphery. Along the line of the junction between the
cartilage and synovial membrane, the proliferation of tissue leads to
the formation of nodules or masses of cartilage--_ecchondroses_--which
are subsequently converted into bone (Fig. 157). Gross alterations in
the ends of the bone are thus brought about which can be recognised
clinically and in skiagrams, and which tend to restrict the normal range
of movement. The extension of the ossification into the synovial
reflection and capsular ligament adds a collar or "lip" of new bone,
known as "lipping" of the articular margins, and also into other
ligaments, insertions of tendons and intermuscular septa giving rise to
bony outgrowths or osteophytes not unlike those met with in the
neuro-arthropathies.

Proliferative changes in the synovial membrane are attended with
increased vascularity and thickening of the membrane and an enlargement
of its villi and fringes. When the fatty fringes are developed to an
exaggerated degree, the condition is described as an _arborescent
lipoma_ (Fig. 159). Individual fringes may attain the size of a hazel
nut, and the fibro-fatty tissue of which they are composed may be
converted into cartilage and bone; such a body may remain attached by a
narrow pedicle or stalk, or this may be torn across and the body becomes
loose and, unless confined in a recess of the joint, it wanders about
and may become impacted between the articular surfaces. These changes in
the synovial membrane are often associated with an abundant exudate or
hydrops. These degenerative and hypertrophic changes, while usually
attended with marked restriction of movement and sometimes by "locking"
of the joint, practically never result in ankylosis.

The _ankylosing type_ of chronic arthritis is fortunately much rarer
than those described above, and is chiefly met with in the joints of the
fingers and toes and in those of the vertebral column. The synovial
membrane proliferates, grows over the cartilage, and replaces it, and
when two such articular surfaces are in contact they tend to adhere,
thus obliterating the joint, cavity, and resulting in fibrous or bony
ankylosis. The changes progress slowly and, before they result in
ankylosis, various sub-luxations and dislocations may occur with
distortion and deformity which, in the case of the fingers, is extremely
disabling and unsightly (Fig. 160).

_Clinical Features._--It is usually observed that in patients who are
still young the tendency is for the disease to advance with considerable
rapidity, so that in the course of months it may cause crippling of
several joints. The course of the disease as met with in persons past
middle life is more chronic; it begins insidiously, and many years may
pass before there is pronounced disability. The earliest symptom is
stiffness, especially in the morning after rest, which passes off
temporarily with use of the limb. As time goes on, the range of movement
becomes restricted, and crackings occur. This stage of the disease may
be prolonged indefinitely; if it progresses, stiffness becomes more
pronounced, certain movements are lost, others develop in abnormal
directions, and deformed attitudes add to the disablement. The disease
is compatible with long life, but not with any active occupation, hence
those of the hospital class who suffer from it tend to accumulate in
workhouse infirmaries.

_Hydrops_ is most marked in the knee, and may affect also the adjacent
bursae. As the joint becomes distended with fluid, the ligaments are
stretched, the limb becomes weak and unstable, and the patient complains
of a feeling of weight, of insecurity, and of tiredness. Pain is
occasional and evanescent, and is usually the result of some extra
exertion, or exposure to cold and wet. This form of the disease is
extr