ssure within the veins, and
this may be produced in a variety of ways. In certain diseases of the
heart, lungs, and liver, for example, the venous pressure may be so
raised as to cause a localised dilatation of such veins as are
congenitally weak. The direct pressure of a tumour, or of the gravid
uterus on the large venous trunks in the pelvis, may so obstruct the
flow as to distend the veins of the lower extremity. It is a common
experience in women that the signs of varix date from an antecedent
pregnancy. The importance of the wearing of tight garters as a factor in
the production of varicose veins has been exaggerated, although it must
be admitted that this practice is calculated to aggravate the condition
when it is once established. It has been proved experimentally that the
backward pressure in the veins may be greatly increased by straining, a
fact which helps to explain the frequency with which varicosity occurs
in the lower limbs of athletes and of those whose occupation involves
repeated and violent muscular efforts. There is reason to believe,
moreover, that a sudden strain may, by rupturing the valves and so
rendering them incompetent, induce varicosity independently of any
congenital defect. Prolonged standing or walking, by allowing gravity to
act on the column of blood in the veins of the lower limbs, is also an
important determining factor in the production of varix.

Thrombosis of the deep veins--in the leg, for example--may induce marked
dilatation of the superficial veins, by throwing an increased amount of
work upon them. This is to be looked upon rather as a compensatory
hypertrophy of the superficial vessels than as a true varix.

_Morbid Anatomy._--In the lower extremity the varicosity most commonly
affects the vessels of the great saphena system; less frequently those
of the small saphena system. Sometimes both systems are involved, and
large communicating branches may develop between the two.

The essential lesion is the absence or deficiency of valves, so that
they are incompetent and fail to support the column of blood which bears
back upon them. Normally the valves in the femoral and iliac veins and
in the inferior vena cava are imperfectly developed, so that in the
erect posture the great saphena receives a large share of the backward
pressure of the column of venous blood.

The whole length of the vein may be affected, but as a rule the disease
is confined to one or more segments, which are not only dilated, but are
also increased in length, so that they become convoluted. The adjacent
loops of the convoluted vein are often bound together by fibrous tissue.
All the coats are thickened, chiefly by an increased development of
connective tissue, and in some cases changes similar to those of
arterio-sclerosis occur. The walls of varicose veins are often
exceedingly brittle. In some cases the thickening is uniform, and in
others it is irregular, so that here and there thin-walled sacs or
pouches project from the side of the vein. These pouches vary in size
from a bean to a hen's egg, the larger forms being called _venous
cysts_, and being most commonly met with in the region of the saphenous
opening and of the opening in the popliteal fascia. Such pouches, being
exposed to injury, are frequently the seat of thrombosis (Fig. 66).

[Illustration: FIG. 66.--Thrombosis in Tortuous and Pouched Great
Saphena Vein, in longitudinal section.]

_Clinical Features._--Varix is most frequently met with between puberty
and the age of thirty, and the sexes appear to suffer about equally.

The amount of discomfort bears no direct proportion to the extent of
the varicosity. It depends rather upon the degree of pressure in the
veins, as is shown by the fact that it is relieved by elevation of the
limb. When the whole length of the main trunk of the great saphena is
implicated, the pressure in the vein is high and the patient suffers a
good deal of pain and discomfort. When, on the contrary, the upper part
of the saphena and its valves are intact, and only the more distal veins
are involved, the pressure is not so high and there is comparatively
little suffering. The usual complaint is of a sense of weight and
fulness in the limb after standing or walking, sometimes accompanied by
actual pain, from which relief is at once obtained by raising the limb.
Cramp-like pains in the muscles are often associated with varix of the
deep veins.

The dilated and tortuous vein can be readily seen and felt when the
patient is examined in the upright posture. In advanced cases, bead-like
swellings are sometimes to be detected over the position of the valves,
and, on running the fingers along the course of the vessel, a firm
ridge, due to periphlebitis, may be detected on each side of the vein.
When the limb is oedematous, the outline of the veins is obscured, but
they can be identified on palpation as gutter-like tracks. When large
veins are implicated, a distinct impulse on coughing may be seen to pass
down as far 