elium or endothelium; the contents are fluid or semi-solid, and
vary in character according to the tissue in which the cyst has
originated.

_Retention and Exudation Cysts._--_Retention cysts_ develop when the
duct of a secreting gland is partly obstructed; the secretion
accumulates, and the gland and its duct become distended into a cyst.
They are met with in the mamma and in the salivary glands. Sebaceous
cysts or wens are described with diseases of the skin. _Exudation cysts_
arise from the distension of cavities which are not provided with
excretory ducts, such as those in the thyreoid.

_Implantation cysts_ are caused by the accidental transference of
portions of the epidermis into the underlying connective tissue, as may
occur in wounds by needles, awls, forks, or thorns. The implanted
epidermis proliferates and forms a small cyst. They are met with chiefly
on the palmar aspect of the fingers, and vary in size from a split pea
to a cherry. The treatment consists in removing them by dissection.

_Parasitic cysts_ are produced by the growth within the tissues of
cyst-forming parasites, the best known being the taenia echinococcus,
which gives rise to the _hydatid cyst_. The liver is by far the most
common site of hydatid cysts in the human subject.

With regard to the further life-history of hydatids, the living elements
of the cyst may die and degenerate, or the cyst may increase in size
until it ruptures. As a result of pyogenic infection the cyst may be
converted into an abscess.

The _clinical features_ of hydatids vary so much with their situation
and size, that they are best discussed with the individual organs. In
general it may be said that there is a slow formation of a globular,
elastic, fluctuating, painless swelling. Fluctuation is detected when
the cyst approaches the surface, and it is then also that percussion
may elicit the "hydatid thrill" or fremitus. This thrill is not often
obtainable, and in any case is not pathognomonic of hydatids, as it may
be elicited in ascites and in other abdominal cysts. Pressure of the
cyst upon adjacent structures, and the occurrence of suppuration, are
attended with characteristic clinical features.

The _diagnosis_ of hydatids will be considered with the individual
organs. The disease is more common in certain parts of Australia and in
Shetland and Iceland than in countries where the association of dogs in
the domestic life of the inhabitants is less intimate. Pfeiler, who has
worked at the _serum diagnosis of hydatid disease_, regards the
complement deviation method as the most reliable; he believes that a
positive reaction may almost be regarded as absolutely diagnostic of an
echinococcal lesion.

The _treatment_ is to excise the cyst completely, or to inject into it a
1 per cent. solution of formalin. In operating upon hydatids the utmost
care must be taken to avoid leakage of the contents of the cyst, as
these may readily disseminate the infection.

A _blood cyst_ or haematoma results from the encapsulation of
extravasated blood in the tissues, from haemorrhage taking place into a
preformed cyst, or from the saccular pouching of a varicose vein.

A _lymph cyst_ usually results from a contusion in which the skin is
forcibly displaced from the subjacent tissues, and lymph vessels are
thereby torn across. The cyst is usually situated between the skin and
fascia, and contains clear or blood-stained serum. At first it is lax
and fluctuates readily, later it becomes larger and more tense. The
treatment consists in drawing off the contents through a hollow needle
and applying firm pressure. Apart from injury, lymph cysts are met with
as the result of the distension of lymph spaces and vessels
(_lymphangiectasis_); and in lymphangiomas, of which the best-known
example is the cystic hygroma or hydrocele of the neck.


GANGLION

This term is applied to a cyst filled with a clear colourless jelly or
colloid material, met with in the vicinity of a joint or tendon sheath.

The commonest variety--the _carpal ganglion_--popularly known as a
sprained sinew--is met with as a smooth, rounded, or oval swelling on
the dorsal aspect of the carpus, usually towards its radial side (Fig. 60).
It is situated over one of the intercarpal or other joints in this
region, and may be connected with one or other of the extensor tendons.
The skin and fascia are movable over the cyst. The cyst varies in size
from a pea to a pigeon's egg, and usually attains its maximum size
within a few months and then remains stationary. It becomes tense and
prominent when the hand is flexed towards the palm. Its appearance is
usually ascribed to some strain of the wrist--for example, in girls
learning gymnastics. It may cause no symptoms or it may interfere with
the use of the hand, especially in grasping movements and when the hand
is dorsiflexed. In girls it may give rise to pain which shoots up the
arm. Ganglia are also met with on the dorsum of the metacarpus and on
the palmar aspect of the wri