 its pledges to the country. When Democratic Senators balked at
tariff reductions, they were sharply informed that the party had
plighted its word and that no excuses or delays would be tolerated.


DOMESTIC LEGISLATION

=Financial Measures.=--Under this spirited leadership Congress went to
work, passing first the Underwood tariff act of 1913, which made a
downward revision in the rates of duty, fixing them on the average about
twenty-six per cent lower than the figures of 1907. The protective
principle was retained, but an effort was made to permit a moderate
element of foreign competition. As a part of the revenue act Congress
levied a tax on incomes as authorized by the sixteenth amendment to the
Constitution. The tax which roused such party passions twenty years
before was now accepted as a matter of course.

Having disposed of the tariff, Congress took up the old and vexatious
currency question and offered a new solution in the form of the federal
reserve law of December, 1913. This measure, one of the most interesting
in the history of federal finance, embraced four leading features. In
the first place, it continued the prohibition on the issuance of notes
by state banks and provided for a national currency. In the second
place, it put the new banking system under the control of a federal
reserve board composed entirely of government officials. To prevent the
growth of a "central money power," it provided, in the third place, for
the creation of twelve federal reserve banks, one in each of twelve
great districts into which the country is divided. All local national
banks were required and certain other banks permitted to become members
of the new system and share in its control. Finally, with a view to
expanding the currency, a step which the Democrats had long urged upon
the country, the issuance of paper money, under definite safeguards, was
authorized.

Mindful of the agricultural interest, ever dear to the heart of
Jefferson's followers, the Democrats supplemented the reserve law by the
Farm Loan Act of 1916, creating federal agencies to lend money on farm
mortgages at moderate rates of interest. Within a year $20,000,000 had
been lent to farmers, the heaviest borrowing being in nine Western and
Southern states, with Texas in the lead.

=Anti-trust Legislation.=--The tariff and currency laws were followed by
three significant measures relative to trusts. Rejecting utterly the
Progressive doctrine of government regulation, President Wilson
announced that it was the purpose of the Democrats "to destroy monopoly
and maintain competition as the only effective instrument of business
liberty." The first step in this direction, the Clayton Anti-trust Act,
carried into great detail the Sherman law of 1890 forbidding and
penalizing combinations in restraint of interstate and foreign trade. In
every line it revealed a determined effort to tear apart the great
trusts and to put all business on a competitive basis. Its terms were
reinforced in the same year by a law creating a Federal Trade Commission
empowered to inquire into the methods of corporations and lodge
complaints against concerns "using any unfair method of competition." In
only one respect was the severity of the Democratic policy relaxed. An
act of 1918 provided that the Sherman law should not apply to companies
engaged in export trade, the purpose being to encourage large
corporations to enter foreign commerce.

The effect of this whole body of anti-trust legislation, in spite of
much labor on it, remained problematical. Very few combinations were
dissolved as a result of it. Startling investigations were made into
alleged abuses on the part of trusts; but it could hardly be said that
huge business concerns had lost any of their predominance in American
industry.

=Labor Legislation.=--By no mere coincidence, the Clayton Anti-trust law
of 1914 made many concessions to organized labor. It declared that "the
labor of a human being is not a commodity or an article of commerce,"
and it exempted unions from prosecution as "combinations in restraint of
trade." It likewise defined and limited the uses which the federal
courts might make of injunctions in labor disputes and guaranteed trial
by jury to those guilty of disobedience (see p. 581).

The Clayton law was followed the next year by the Seamen's Act giving
greater liberty of contract to American sailors and requiring an
improvement of living conditions on shipboard. This was such a drastic
law that shipowners declared themselves unable to meet foreign
competition under its terms, owing to the low labor standards of other
countries.

Still more extraordinary than the Seamen's Act was the Adamson law of
1916 fixing a standard eight-hour work-day for trainmen on railroads--a
measure wrung from Congress under a threat of a great strike by the four
Railway Brotherhoods. This act, viewed by union leaders as a triumph,
called forth a bitter denunciation of "trade union domination," but it
was easier to