dom gives rise to urgent symptoms.

As a rule a fusiform aneurysm contains fluid blood, but when the intima
is roughened by disease, especially in the form of calcareous plates,
shreds of clot may adhere to it.

It has little tendency to natural cure, although this is occasionally
effected by the emerging artery becoming occluded by a clot; it has also
little tendency to rupture.

#Sacculated Aneurysm.#--When a _limited area_ of the vessel wall is
weakened--for example by atheroma or by other form of arteritis--this
portion yields before the pressure of the blood, and a sacculated
aneurysm results. The internal and middle coats being already damaged,
or, it may be, destroyed, by the primary disease, the stress falls on
the external coat, which in the majority of cases constitutes the sac.
To withstand the pressure the external coat becomes thickened, and as
the aneurysm increases in size it forms adhesions to surrounding
tissues, so that fasciae, tendons, nerves, and other structures may be
found matted together in its wall. The wall is further strengthened by
the deposit on its inner aspect of blood-clot, which may eventually
become organised.

The contents of the sac consist of fluid blood and a varying amount of
clot which is deposited in concentric layers on the inner aspect of the
sac, where it forms a pale, striated, firm mass, which constitutes a
laminated clot. Near the blood-current the clot is soft, red, and
friable (Fig. 72). The laminated clot not only strengthens the sac,
enabling it to resist the blood-pressure and so prevent rupture, but, if
it increases sufficiently to fill the cavity, may bring about cure. The
principle upon which all methods of treatment are based is to imitate
nature in producing such a clot.

Sacculated aneurysm, as compared with the fusiform variety, tends to
rupture and also to cure by the formation of laminated clot; natural
cure is sometimes all but complete when extension and rupture occur and
cause death.

An aneurysm is said to be _diffused_ when the sac ruptures and the blood
escapes into the cellular tissue.

#Clinical Features of Aneurysm.#--Surgically, the sacculated is by far
the most important variety. The outstanding feature is the existence in
the line of an artery of a globular swelling, which pulsates. The
pulsation is of an expansile character, which is detected by observing
that when both hands are placed over the swelling they are separated
with each beat of the heart. If the main artery be compressed on the
cardiac side of the swelling, the pulsation is arrested and the tumour
becomes smaller and less tense, and it may be still further reduced in
size by gentle pressure being made over it so as to empty it of fluid
blood. On allowing the blood again to flow through the artery, the
pulsation returns at once, but several beats are required before the sac
regains its former size. In most cases a distinct thrill is felt on
placing the hand over the swelling, and a blowing, systolic murmur may
be heard with the stethoscope. It is to be borne in mind that
occasionally, when the interchange of blood between an aneurysm and the
artery from which it arises is small, pulsation and bruit may be slight
or even absent. This is also the case when the sac contains a
considerable quantity of clot. When it becomes filled with
clot--_consolidated aneurysm_--these signs disappear, and the clinical
features are those of a solid tumour lying in contact with an artery,
and transmitting its pulsation.

A comparison of the pulse in the artery beyond the seat of the aneurysm
with that in the corresponding artery on the healthy side, shows that on
the affected side the wave is smaller in volume, and delayed in time. A
pulse tracing shows that the normal impulse and dicrotic waves are lost,
and that the force and rapidity of the tidal wave are diminished.

[Illustration: FIG. 71.--Radiogram of Aneurysm of Aorta, showing
laminated clot and erosion of bodies of vertebrae. The intervertebral
discs are intact.]

An aneurysm exerts pressure on the surrounding structures, which are
usually thickened and adherent to it and to one another. Adjacent veins
may be so compressed that congestion and oedema of the parts beyond are
produced. Pain, disturbances of sensation, and muscular paralyses may
result from pressure on nerves. Such bones as the sternum and vertebrae
undergo erosion and are absorbed by the gradually increasing pressure of
the aneurysm. Cartilage, on the other hand, being elastic, yields before
the pressure, so that the intervertebral discs or the costal cartilages
may escape while the adjacent bones are destroyed (Fig. 71). The skin
over the tumour becomes thinned and stretched, until finally a slough
forms, and when it separates haemorrhage takes place.

[Illustration: FIG. 72.--Sacculated Aneurysm of Abdominal Aorta nearly
filled with laminated clot. Note greater density of clot towards
periphery.]

In the progress of an aneurysm towards rupture, timely clotting may
av