e procedure. From two to eight or ten sittings may be
necessary, according to the size and character of the naevus.

_Excision_ is to be preferred for naevi of moderate size situated on
covered parts of the body, where a scar is of no importance. Its chief
advantages over electrolysis are that a single operation is sufficient,
and that the cure is speedy and certain. The operation is attended with
much less haemorrhage than might be expected.

#Cavernous Angioma.#--This form of angioma consists of a series of large
blood spaces which are usually derived from the dilatation of the
capillaries of a subcutaneous naevus. The spaces come to communicate
freely with one another by the disappearance of adjacent capillary
walls. While the most common situation is in the subcutaneous tissue, a
cavernous angioma is sometimes met with in internal organs. It may
appear at any age from early youth to middle life, and is of slow growth
and may become stationary. The swelling is rounded or oval, there is no
pulsation or bruit, and the tumour is but slightly compressible. The
treatment consists in dissecting it out.

#Aneurysm by Anastomosis# is the name applied to a vascular tumour in
which the arteries, veins, and capillaries are all involved. It is met
with chiefly on the upper part of the trunk, the neck, and the scalp. It
tends gradually to increase in size, and may, after many years, attain
an enormous size. The tumour is ill-defined, and varies in consistence.
It is pulsatile, and a systolic bruit or a "thrilling" murmur may be
heard over it. The chief risk is haemorrhage from injury or ulceration.

[Illustration: FIG. 69.--Cirsoid Aneurysm of Forehead in a boy aet. 10.

(Mr. J. W. Dowden's case.)]

The _treatment_ is conducted on the same lines as for naevus. When
electrolysis is employed, it should be directed towards the afferent
vessels; and if it fails to arrest the flow through these, it is useless
to persist with it. In some cases ligation of the afferent vessels has
been successful.

#Arterial Angioma# or #Cirsoid Aneurysm#.--This is composed of the
enlarged branches of an arterial trunk. It originates in the smaller
branches of an artery--usually the temporal--and may spread to the main
trunk, and may even involve branches of other trunks with which the
affected artery anastomoses.

The condition is probably congenital in origin, though its appearance is
frequently preceded by an injury. It almost invariably occurs in the
scalp, and is usually met with in adolescent young adults.

The affected vessels slowly increase in size, and become tortuous, with
narrowings and dilatations here and there. Grooves and gutters are
frequently found in the bone underlying the dilated vessels.

There is a constant loud bruit in the tumour, which greatly troubles the
patient and may interfere with sleep. There is no tendency either to
natural cure or to rupture, but severe and even fatal haemorrhage may
follow a wound of the dilated vessels.

[Illustration: FIG. 70.--Cirsoid Aneurysm of Orbit and Face, which
developed after a blow on the Orbit with a cricket ball.

(From a photograph lent by Sir Montagu Cotterill.)]

The condition may be treated by excision or by electrolysis. In excision
the haemorrhage is controlled by an elastic tourniquet applied
horizontally round the head, or by ligation of the feeding trunks. In
large tumours the bleeding is formidable. In many cases electrolysis is
to be preferred, and is performed in the same way as for naevus. The
positive pole is placed in the centre of the tumour, while the negative
is introduced into the main affluents one after another.


ANEURYSM

An aneurysm is a sac communicating with an artery, and containing fluid
or coagulated blood.

Two types are met with--the pathological and the traumatic. It is
convenient to describe in this section also certain conditions in which
there is an abnormal communication between an artery and a
vein--arterio-venous aneurysm.


PATHOLOGICAL ANEURYSM

In this class are included such dilatations as result from weakening of
the arterial coats, combined, in most cases, with a loss of elasticity
in the walls and increase in the arterial tension due to
arterio-sclerosis. In some cases the vessel wall is softened by
arteritis--especially the embolic form--so that it yields before the
pressure of the blood.

Repeated and sudden raising of the arterial tension, as a result, for
example, of violent muscular efforts or of excessive indulgence in
alcohol, plays an important part in the causation of aneurysm. These
factors probably explain the comparative frequency of aneurysm in those
who follow such arduous occupations as soldiers, sailors,
dock-labourers, and navvies. In these classes the condition usually
manifests itself between the ages of thirty and fifty--that is, when the
vessels are beginning to degenerate, although the heart is still
vigorous and the men are hard at work. The comparative immunity of women
may also be explained by the less sev