1890, is secondary to disease in the chest, such
as chronic phthisis, empyema, bronchiectasis, or sarcoma of the lung.

There is symmetrical enlargement and deformity of the hands and feet;
the shafts of the bones are thickened, and the soft tissues of the
terminal segments of the digits hypertrophied. The fingers come to
resemble drum-sticks, and the thumb the clapper of a bell. The nails are
convex, and incurved at their free ends, suggesting a resemblance to the
beak of a parrot. There is also enlargement of the lower ends of the
bones of the forearm and leg, and effusion into the wrist and
ankle-joints. Skiagrams of the hands and feet show a deposit of new bone
along the shafts of the phalanges.


TUMOURS OF BONE

New growths which originate in the skeleton are spoken of as _primary
tumours_; those which invade the bones, either by metastasis from other
parts of the body or by spread from adjacent tissues, as _secondary_. A
tumour of bone may grow from the cellular elements of the periosteum,
the marrow, or the epiphysial cartilage.

Primary tumours are of the connective-tissue type, and are usually
solitary, although certain forms, such as the chondroma, may be multiple
from the outset.

_Periosteal tumours_ are at first situated on one side of the bone, but
as they grow they tend to surround it completely. Innocent periosteal
tumours retain the outer fibrous layer as a capsule. Malignant tumours
tend to perforate the periosteal capsule and invade the soft parts.

_Central_ or _medullary tumours_ as they increase in size replace the
surrounding bone, and simultaneously new bone is formed on the surface;
as this is in its turn absorbed, further bone is formed beneath the
periosteum, so that in time the bone is increased in girth, and is said
to be "expanded" by the growth in its interior.

#Primary Tumours--Osteoma.#--When the tumour projects from the surface
of a bone it is called an _exostosis_. When growing from bones developed
in membrane, such as the flat bones of the skull, it is usually dense
like ivory, and the term _ivory exostosis_ is employed. When derived
from hyaline cartilage--for example, at the ends of the long bones--it
is known as a _cartilaginous exostosis_. This is invested with a cap of
cartilage from which it continues to grow until the skeleton attains
maturity.

An exostosis forms a rounded or mushroom-shaped tumour of limited size,
which may be either sessile or pedunculated, and its surface is smooth
or nodulated (Figs. 138 and 139). A cartilaginous exostosis in the
vicinity of a joint may be invested with a synovial sac or bursa--the
so-called _exostosis bursata_. The bursa may be derived from the
synovial membrane of the adjacent joint with which its cavity sometimes
communicates, or it may be of adventitious origin; when it is the seat
of bursitis and becomes distended with fluid, it may mask the underlying
exostosis, which then requires a radiogram for its demonstration.

[Illustration: FIG. 138.--Radiogram of Right Knee showing Multiple
Exostoses.]

_Clinically_, the osteoma forms a hard, indolent tumour attached to a
bone. The symptoms to which it gives rise depend on its situation. In
the vicinity of a joint, it may interfere with movement; on the medial
side of the knee it may incapacitate the patient from riding. When
growing from the dorsum of the terminal phalanx of the great
toe--_subungual exostosis_--it displaces the nail, and may project
through its matrix at the point of the toe, while the soft parts over it
may be ulcerated from pressure (Fig. 107). It incapacitates the patient
from wearing a boot. When it presses on a nerve-trunk it causes pains
and cramps. In the orbit it displaces the eyeball; in the nasal fossae
and in the external auditory meatus it causes obstruction, which may be
attended with ulceration and discharge. In the skull it may project
from the outer table, forming a smooth rounded swelling, or it may
project from the inner table and press upon the brain.

The diagnosis is to be made by the slow growth of the tumour, its
hardness, and by the shadow which it presents with the X-rays (Fig. 138).

An osteoma which does not cause symptoms may be left alone, as it ceases
to grow when the skeleton is mature and has no tendency to change its
benign character. If causing symptoms, it is removed by dividing the
neck or base of the tumour with a chisel, care being taken to remove the
whole of the overlying cartilage. The dense varieties met with in the
bones of the skull present greater difficulties; if it is necessary to
remove them, the base or neck of the tumour is perforated in many
directions with highly tempered drills rotated by some form of engine,
and the division is completed with the chisel.

[Illustration: FIG. 139.--Multiple Exotoses of both limbs.

(Photograph lent by Sir George T. Beatson.)]

#Multiple Exostoses.#--This disease, which, by custom, is still placed
in the category of tumours, is to be regarded as a disorder of growth,
dating