agnosed from pulsating sarcoma growing from
the pelvic bones, and from an abscess or a mass of enlarged lymph glands
overlying the artery and transmitting its pulsation.

The method of treatment that has met with most success is ligation of
the common or external iliac, reached either by reflecting the
peritoneum from off the iliac fossa (extra-peritoneal operation), or by
going through the peritoneal cavity (trans-peritoneal operation).

#Gluteal Aneurysm.#--An aneurysm in the buttock may arise from the
superior or from the inferior gluteal artery, but by the time it forms a
salient swelling it is seldom possible to recognise by external
examination in which vessel it takes origin. The special symptoms to
which it gives rise are pain down the limb from pressure on the sciatic
nerve, and interference with the movements at the hip.

Ligation of the hypogastric (internal iliac) by the trans-peritoneal
route is the most satisfactory method of treatment. Extirpation of the
sac is difficult and dangerous, especially when the aneurysm has spread
into the pelvis.

#Femoral Aneurysm.#--Aneurysm of the femoral artery beyond the origin of
the profunda branch is usually traumatic in origin, and is more common
in Scarpa's triangle than in Hunter's canal. Any of the methods already
described is available for their treatment--the choice lying between
Matas' operation and ligation of the external iliac.

Aneurysm of the _profunda femoris_ is distinguished from that of the
main trunk by the fact that the pulses beyond are, in the former,
unaffected, and by the normal artery being felt pulsating over or
alongside the sac.

In _aneurysmal varix_, a not infrequent result of a bullet wound or a
stab, the communication with the vein may involve the main trunk of the
femoral artery. Should operative interference become necessary as a
result of progressive increase in size of the tumour, or progressive
distension of the veins of the limb, an attempt should be made to
separate the vessels concerned and to close the opening in each by
suture. If this is impracticable, the artery is tied above and below the
communication; gangrene of the limb may supervene, and we have observed
a case in which the gangrene extended up to the junction of the middle
and lower thirds of the thigh, and in which recovery followed upon
amputation of the thigh.

#Popliteal Aneurysm.#--This is the most common surgical aneurysm, and is
not infrequently met with in both limbs. It is generally due to disease
of the artery, and repeated slight strains, which are so liable to occur
at the knee, play an important part in its formation. In former times it
was common in post-boys, from the repeated flexion and extension of the
knee in riding.

The aneurysm is usually of the sacculated variety, and may spring from
the front or from the back of the vessel. It may exert pressure on the
bones and ligaments of the joint, and it has been known to rupture into
the articulation. The pain, stiffness, and effusion into the joint which
accompany these changes often lead to an erroneous diagnosis of joint
disease. The sac may press upon the popliteal artery or vein and their
branches, causing congestion and oedema of the leg, and lead to gangrene.
Pressure on the tibial and common peroneal nerves gives rise to severe
pain, muscular cramp, and weakness of the leg.

The differential diagnosis is to be made from abscess, bursal cyst,
enlarged glands, and sarcoma, especially pulsating sarcoma of one of the
bones entering into the knee joint.

The choice of operation lies between ligation of the femoral artery in
Hunter's canal, and Matas' operation of aneurysmo-arteriorrhaphy. The
success which attends the Hunterian operation is evidenced by the fact
that Syme performed it thirty-seven times without a single failure. If
it fails, the old operation should be considered, but it is a more
serious operation, and one which is more liable to be followed by
gangrene of the limb. Experience shows that ligation of the vein, or
even the removal of a portion of it, is not necessarily followed by
gangrene. The risk of gangrene is diminished by a course of digital
compression of the femoral artery, before operating on the aneurysm.

_Aneurysmal varix_ is sometimes met with in the region of the popliteal
space. It is characterised by the usual symptoms, and is treated by
palliative measures, or by ligation of the artery above and below the
point of communication.

_Aneurysm_ in the #leg and foot# is rare. It is almost always traumatic,
and is treated by excision of the sac.




CHAPTER XV

THE LYMPH VESSELS AND GLANDS


Anatomy and Physiology--INJURIES OF LYMPH VESSELS--_Wounds of
    thoracic duct_--DISEASES OF LYMPH VESSELS--Lymphangitis:
    _Varieties_--Lymphangiectasis--Filarial
    disease--Lymphangioma--DISEASES OF LYMPH
    GLANDS--Lymphadenitis: _Septic_; _Tuberculous_;
    _Syphilitic_--Lymphadenoma--Leucocythaemia--TUMOURS.

#Surgical Anatomy and Physiology.#--Lymph is essentially bl