on: FIG. 136.--Osteomyelitis Fibrosa affecting Femora in a
man aet. 19. The curving of the bones is due to multiple fractures.]

On longitudinal section of a long bone during the active stage of the
disease, the marrow is seen to be replaced by a vascular young
connective tissue which encroaches on the surrounding spongy bone,
reducing it to the slenderest proportions; the formation of bone from
the periosteum does not keep pace with the absorption and replacement
going on in the interior, and the cortex may be reduced to a thin shell
of imperfectly calcified bone which can be cut with a knife. The young
connective tissue which replaces the marrow is not unlike that seen in
osteomalacia; it is highly vascular and may show haemorrhages of various
date; there are abundant giant cells of the myeloma type, and
degeneration and liquefaction of tissue may result in the formation of
cysts, which, when they constitute a prominent feature, are responsible
for the name--_osteomyelitis fibrosa cystica_--sometimes applied to the
condition.

It would appear that most of the recorded cases of _cysts of bone_ owe
their origin to this disease, while the abundance of giant cells with
occasional islands of cartilage in the wall of such cysts is responsible
for the view formerly held that they owed their origin to the
liquefaction of a solid tumour, such as a myeloma, a chondroma, or even
a sarcoma. Although the tissue elements in this disease resemble those
of a new growth arising in the marrow, they differ in their arrangement
and in their method of growth; there is no tendency to erupt through the
cortex of the bone, to invade the soft parts, or to give rise to
secondary growths.

_Clinical Features._--The onset of the disease is insidious, and
attention is usually first directed to it by the occurrence of fracture
of the shaft of one of the long bones--usually the femur--from violence
that would be insufficient to break a healthy bone. Apart from fracture,
the great increase in the size of one of the long bones and its uneven
contour are sufficiently remarkable to suggest examination with the
X-rays, by means of which the condition is at once recognised. A
systematic examination of the other long bones will often reveal the
presence of the disease at a stage before the bone is altered
externally.

Symmetrical bossing of the skull was present in the case shown in
Figs. 136 and 137, and there were also scattered patches of brown
pigmentation of the skin of the face, neck, and trunk, similar to those
met with in generalised neuro-fibromatosis. Apart from fracture, the
disease is recognised by the thickening and usually also by the curving
of the shafts of the long bones. It is easy to understand the curvature
of bones that have passed through a soft stage and also of those that
have been broken and badly united, but it is difficult to account for
the curvatures that have no such cause; for example, we have seen
marked curve of the radius in a forearm of which the ulna was quite
straight. The curvature probably resulted from exaggerated growth in
length.

[Illustration: FIG. 137.--Radiogram of Upper End of Femur showing
appearances in Osteomyelitis Fibrosa.]

The X-ray appearances vary with the stage of the malady, not estimated
in time, for the condition is chronic and may become stationary, but
according to whether it is progressive or undergoing repair. The shadow
of the bone presents a poor contrast to the soft parts, and no trace of
its original architecture; in extreme cases the shadow of the femur
resembles an unevenly filled sausage (Fig. 137); there is no cortical
layer, the interior shows no trabecular structure, and some of the many
clear areas are probably cysts. The condition extends right up to the
articular cartilage, or, in the case of adolescent bones, up to the
epiphysial cartilage.

_Prognosis._--The condition does not appear to affect the general
health. The future is concerned with the local conditions, and,
especially in the case of the femur, with its liability to fracture; so
far as we know there is no time limit to this.

_Treatment_ is confined to protecting the affected bone--usually the
femur--from injury. Operative treatment may be required for lameness due
to a badly united fracture.

#Neuropathic Atrophy of Bone.#--The conditions included under this
heading occur in association with diseases of the nervous system.

Most importance attaches to the fragility of the bones met with in
general paralysis of the insane, locomotor ataxia, and other chronic
diseases of the brain and spinal cord. The bones are liable to be
fractured by forces which would be insufficient to break a healthy bone.
In _locomotor ataxia_ the fractures affect especially the bones of the
lower extremity, and may occur before there are any definite nerve
symptoms, but they are more often met with in the ataxic stage, when the
abrupt and uncontrolled movements of the limbs may play a part in their
causation. They may be unattended