 part
usually affected being the medial cord, which is made up of fibres from
the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves.

When a lesion of the plexus complicates a _fracture of the clavicle_,
the nerve injury is due, not to pressure on or laceration of the nerves
by fragments of bone, but to the violence causing the fracture, and this
is usually applied to the point of the shoulder.

Penetrating _wounds_, apart from those met with in military practice,
are rare.

In the #infra-clavicular injuries#, the lesion most often results from
the pressure of the dislocated head of the humerus; occasionally from
attempts made to reduce the dislocation by the heel-in-the-axilla
method, or from fracture of the upper end of the humerus or of the neck
of the scapula. The whole plexus may suffer, but more frequently the
medial cord is alone implicated.

_Clinical Features._--Three types of lesion result from indirect
violence: the whole plexus; the upper-arm type; and the lower-arm type.

_When the whole plexus is involved_, sensibility is lost over the entire
forearm and hand and over the lateral surface of the arm in its distal
two-thirds. All the muscles of the arm, forearm, and hand are paralysed,
and, as a rule, also the pectorals and spinati, but the rhomboids and
serratus anterior escape. There is paralysis of the sympathetic fibres
to the eye and orbit, with narrowing of the palpebral fissure, recession
of the globe, and the pupil is slow to dilate when shaded from the
light.

The _upper-arm type_--Erb-Duchenne paralysis--is that most frequently
met with, and it is due to a lesion of the fifth anterior branch, or, it
may be, also of the sixth. The position of the upper limb is typical:
the arm and forearm hang close to the side, with the forearm extended
and pronated; the deltoid, spinati, biceps, brachialis, and supinators
are paralysed, and in some cases the radial extensors of the wrist and
the pronator teres are also affected. The patient is unable to supinate
the forearm or to abduct the arm, and in most cases to flex the forearm.
He may, however, regain some power of flexing the forearm when it is
fully pronated, the extensors of the wrist becoming feeble flexors of
the elbow. There is, as a rule, no loss of sensibility, but complaint
may be made of tickling and of pins-and-needles over the lateral aspect
of the arm. The abnormal position of the limb may persist although the
muscles regain the power of voluntary movement, and as the condition
frequently follows a fall on the shoulder, great care is necessary in
diagnosis, as the condition is apt to be attributed to an injury to the
axillary (circumflex) nerve.

The _lower-arm type_ of paralysis, associated with the name of Klumpke,
is usually due to over-stretching of the plexus, and especially affects
the anterior branch of the first dorsal nerve. In typical cases all the
intrinsic muscles of the hand are affected, and the hand assumes the
claw shape. Sensibility is usually altered over the medial side of the
arm and forearm, and there is paralysis of the sympathetic.

_Infra-clavicular injuries_, as already stated, are most often produced
by a sub-coracoid dislocation of the humerus; the medial cord is that
most frequently injured, and the muscles paralysed are those supplied by
the ulnar nerve, with, in addition, those intrinsic muscles of the hand
supplied by the median. Sensibility is affected over the medial surface
of the forearm and ulnar area of the hand. Injury of the lateral and
posterior cords is very rare.

_Treatment_ is carried out on the lines already laid down for nerve
injuries in general. It is impossible to diagnose between complete and
incomplete rupture of the nerve cords, until sufficient time has elapsed
to allow of the establishment of the reaction of degeneration. If this
is present at the end of fourteen days, operation should not be delayed.
Access to the cords of the plexus is obtained by a dissection similar to
that employed for the subclavian artery, and the nerves are sought for
as they emerge from under cover of the scalenus anterior, and are then
traced until the seat of injury is found. In the case of the first
dorsal nerve, it may be necessary temporarily to resect the clavicle.
The usual after-treatment must be persisted in until recovery ensues,
and care must be taken that the paralysed muscles do not become
over-stretched. The prognosis is less favourable in the supra-clavicular
lesions than in those below the clavicle, which nearly always recover
without surgical intervention.

In the _brachial birth-paralysis_ met with in infants, the lesion is due
to over-stretching of the plexus, and is nearly always of the
Erb-Duchenne type. The injury is usually unilateral, it occurs with
almost equal frequency in breech and in vertex presentations, and the
left arm is more often affected than the right. The lesion is seldom
recognised at birth. The first symptom noticed is tenderness in the
supra-clavicular region, the child cry