and the part painted daily with a
saturated solution of salicylic acid in flexile collodion.

[Illustration: FIG. 93.--Callosities and Corns on the Sole and Plantar
Aspect of the Toes in a woman who was also the subject of flat-foot.]

#Corns.#--A corn is a localised overgrowth of the horny layer of the
epidermis, which grows downwards, pressing upon and displacing the
sensitive papillae of the corium. Corns are due to the friction and
pressure of ill-fitting boots, and are met with chiefly on the toes and
sole of the foot. A corn is usually hard, dry, and white; but it may be
sodden from moisture, as in "soft corns" between the toes. A bursa may
form beneath a corn, and if inflamed constitutes one form of bunion.
When suppuration takes place in relation to a corn, there is great pain
and disability, and it may prove the starting-point of lymphangitis.

The _treatment_ consists in the wearing of properly fitting boots and
stockings, and, if the symptoms persist, the corn should be removed.
This is done after the manner of chiropodists by digging out the corn
with a suitably shaped knife. A more radical procedure is to excise,
under local anaesthesia, the portion of skin containing the corn and
the underlying bursa. The majority of so-called corn solvents consist of
a solution of salicylic acid in collodion; if this is painted on daily,
the epidermis dies and can then be pared away. The unskilful paring of
corns may determine the occurrence of senile gangrene in those who are
predisposed to it by disease of the arteries.

[Illustration: FIG. 94.--Ulcerated Chilblains on Fingers of a Child.]

#Chilblains.#--Chilblain or _erythema pernio_ is a vascular disturbance
resulting from the alternate action of cold and heat on the distal parts
of the body. Chilblains are met with chiefly on the fingers and toes in
children and anaemic girls. In the mild form there is a sensation of
burning and itching, the part becomes swollen, of a dusky red colour,
and the skin is tense and shiny. In more severe cases the burning and
itching are attended with pain, and the skin becomes of a violet or
wine-red colour. There is a third degree, closely approaching
frost-bite, in which the skin tends to blister and give way, leaving an
indolent raw surface popularly known as a "broken chilblain."

Those liable to chilblains should take open-air exercise, nourishing
food, cod-liver oil, and tonics. Woollen stockings and gloves should be
worn in cold weather, and sudden changes of temperature avoided. The
symptoms may be relieved by ichthyol ointment, glycerin and belladonna,
or a mixture of Venice turpentine, castor oil, and collodion applied on
lint which is wrapped round the toe. Another favourite application is
one of equal parts of tincture of capsicum and compound liniment of
camphor, painted over the area night and morning. Balsam of Peru or
resin ointment spread on gauze should be applied to broken chilblains.
The most effective treatment is Bier's bandage applied for about six
hours twice daily; it can be worn while the patient is following his
occupation; in chronic cases this may be supplemented with hot-air
baths.

#Boils and Carbuncles.#--These result from infection with the
staphylococcus aureus, which enters the orifices of the ducts of the
skin under the influence of friction and pressure, as was demonstrated
by the well-known experiment of Garre, who produced a crop of pustules
and boils on his own forearm by rubbing in a culture of the
staphylococcus aureus.

A #boil# results when the infection is located in a hair follicle or
sebaceous gland. A hard, painful, conical swelling develops, to which,
so long as the skin retains its normal appearance, the term "blind
boil" is applied. Usually, however, the skin becomes red, and after a
time breaks, giving exit to a drop or two of thick pus. After an
interval of from six to ten days a soft white slough is discharged; this
is known as the "core," and consists of the necrosed hair follicle or
sebaceous gland. After the separation of the core the boil heals
rapidly, leaving a small depressed scar.

Boils are most frequently met with on the back of the neck and the
buttocks, and on other parts where the skin is coarse and thick and is
exposed to friction and pressure. The occurrence of a number or a
succession of boils is due to spread of the infection, the cocci from
the original boil obtaining access to adjacent hair follicles. The
spread of boils may be unwittingly promoted by the use of a domestic
poultice or the wearing of infected underclothing.

While boils are frequently met with in debilitated persons, and
particularly in those suffering from diabetes or Bright's disease, they
also occur in those who enjoy vigorous health. They seldom prove
dangerous to life except in diabetic subjects, but when they occur on
the face there is a risk of lymphatic and of general pyogenic infection.
Boils may be differentiated from syphilitic lesions of the skin by
their acute onset and pro