ed.

In a considerable proportion of cases one of the multiple tumours takes
on the characters of a malignant growth ("secondary malignant neuroma,"
Garre). This malignant transformation may follow upon injury, or on an
unsuccessful attempt to remove the tumour. The features are those of a
rapidly growing sarcoma involving a nerve-trunk, with agonising pain
and muscular cramps, followed by paralysis from destruction of the
nerve fibres. The removal of the tumour is usually followed by
recurrence, so that high amputation is the only treatment to be
recommended. Metastasis to internal organs is exceptional.

[Illustration: FIG. 87.--Plexiform Neuroma of small Sciatic Nerve, from
a girl aet. 16.

(Mr. Annandale's case.)]

There are other types of neuro-fibromatosis which require brief mention.

_The plexiform neuroma_ (Fig. 87) is a fibromatosis confined to the
distribution of one or more contiguous nerves or of a plexus of nerves,
and it may occur either by itself or along with multiple tumours of the
nerve-trunks and with pigmentation of the skin. The clinical features
are those of an ill-defined swelling composed of a number of tortuous,
convoluted cords, lying in a loose areolar tissue and freely movable on
one another. It is rarely the seat of pain or tenderness. It most often
appears in the early years of life, sometimes in relation to a pigmented
or hairy mole. It is of slow growth, may remain stationary for long
periods, and has little or no tendency to become malignant. It is
usually subcutaneous, and is frequently situated on the head or neck in
the distribution of the trigeminal or superficial cervical nerves. There
is no necessity for its removal, but this may be indicated because of
disfigurement, especially on the face or scalp or because its bulk
interferes with function. When involving the ophthalmic division of the
trigeminus, for example, it may cause enlargement of the upper lid and
proptosis, with danger to the function of the globe. The results of
excision are usually satisfactory, even if the removal is not complete.

[Illustration: FIG. 88.--Multiple Neuro-fibromas of Skin (Molluscum
fibrosum, or Recklinghausen's disease).]

_The cutaneous neuro-fibroma_ or _molluscum fibrosum_ has been shown by
Recklinghausen to be a soft fibroma related to the terminal filaments of
one of the cutaneous nerves (Fig. 88). The disease appears in the form
of multiple, soft, projecting tumours, scattered all over the body,
except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The tumours are of
all sizes, some being no larger than a pin's head, whilst many are as
big as a filbert and a few even larger. Many are sessile and others are
distinctly pedunculated, but all are covered with skin. They are mobile,
soft to the touch, and of the consistence of firm fat. In exceptional
cases one of the skin tumours may attain an enormous size and cause a
hideous deformity, hanging down by its own weight in lobulated or folded
masses (pachy-dermatocele). The treatment consists in removing the
larger swellings. In some cases molluscum fibrosum is associated with
pigmentation of the skin and with multiple tumours of the nerve-trunks.
The small multiple tumours rarely call for interference.

[Illustration: FIG. 89.--Elephantiasis Neuromatosa in a woman aet. 28]

_Elephantiasis neuromatosa_ is the name applied by Virchow to a
condition in which a limb is swollen and misshapen as a result of the
extension of a neuro-fibromatosis to the skin and subcutaneous cellular
tissue of the extremity as a whole (Fig. 89). It usually begins in early
life without apparent cause, and it may be associated with multiple
tumours of the nerve-trunks. The inconvenience caused by the bulk and
weight of the limb may justify its removal.


SURGERY OF THE INDIVIDUAL NERVES[6]

[6] We desire here to acknowledge our indebtedness to Mr. James
Sherren's work on _Injuries of Nerves and their Treatment_.

#The Brachial Plexus.#--Lesions of the brachial plexus may be divided
into those above the clavicle and those below that bone.

In the #supra-clavicular injuries#, the violence applied to the head or
shoulder causes over-stretching of the anterior branches (primary
divisions) of the cervical nerves, the fifth, or the fifth and sixth
being those most liable to suffer. Sometimes the traction is exerted
upon the plexus from below, as when a man in falling from a height
endeavours to save himself by clutching at some projection, and the
lesion then mainly affects the first dorsal nerve. There is tearing of
the nerve sheaths, with haemorrhage, but in severe cases partial or
complete severance of nerve fibres may occur and these give way at
different levels. During the healing process an excess of fibrous tissue
is formed, which may interfere with regeneration.

_Post-anaesthetic paralysis_ occurs in patients in whom, during the
course of an operation, the arm is abducted and rotated laterally or
extended above the head, causing over-stretching of the plexus,