rus of a
boy we resected the shaft and inserted his fibula ten years ago, and he
shows no sign of recurrence. When resection is impracticable, a
subcapsular enucleation is performed, followed by the insertion of
radium.

#Pulsating Haematoma# or #Aneurysm of Bone#.--A limited number of these
are innocent cavernous tumours dating from a congenital angioma. The
majority would appear to be the result of changes in a sarcoma,
endothelioma, or myeloma. The tumour tissue largely disappears, while
the vessels and vascular spaces undergo a remarkable development. The
tumour may come to be represented by one large blood-containing space
communicating with the arteries of the limb; the walls of the space
consist of the remains of the original tumour, plus a shell of bone of
varying thickness. The most common seats of the condition are the lower
end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia, and the bones of the
pelvis.

The _clinical features_ are those of a pulsating tumour of slow
development, and as in true aneurysm, the pulsation and bruit disappear
on compression of the main artery. The origin of the tumour from bone
may be revealed by the presence of egg-shell crackling, and by
examination with the X-rays.

If the condition is believed to be innocent, the treatment is the same
as for aneurysm--preferably by ligation of the main artery; if
malignant, it is the same as for sarcoma.

#Secondary Tumours of Bone.#--These embrace two groups of new growth,
those which give rise to secondary growths in the marrow of bones and
those which spread to bone by direct continuity.

_Metastatic Tumours._--Excepting certain cancers which give rise to
metastases by lymphatic permeation (Handley), the common metastases
arising in the bone-marrow reach their destination through the
blood-stream.

[Illustration: FIG. 153.--Epitheliomatous Ulcer of Leg with direct
extension to Tibia.

(Lord Lister's specimen. Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)]

Secondary cancer is a comparatively common disease, and, as in
metastases in other tissues, the secondary growths resemble the parent
tumour. The soft forms grow rapidly, and eat away the bone, without
altering its shape or form. In slowly growing forms there may be
considerable formation of imperfectly formed bone, often deficient in
lime salts; this condition may be widely diffused throughout the
skeleton, and, as it is associated with softening and bending of the
bones, it is known as _cancerous osteomalacia_. Secondary cancer of bone
is attended with pain, or it suddenly attracts notice by the occurrence
of pathological fracture--as, for example, in the shaft of the femur or
humerus. In the vertebrae, it is attended with a painful form of
paraplegia, which may involve the lower or all four extremities. On the
other hand, the disease may show itself clinically as a tumour of bone,
which may attain a considerable size, and may be mistaken for a sarcoma,
unless the existence of the primary cancer is discovered.

The cancers most liable to give rise to metastasis in bone are those of
the breast, liver, uterus, prostate, colon, and rectum; hyper-nephroma
of the kidney may also give rise to metastases in bone.

_Secondary tumours derived from the thyreoid gland_ require special
mention, because they are peculiar in that neither the primary growth in
the thyreoid nor the secondary growth in the bones is necessarily
malignant. They are therefore amenable to operative treatment.

_Secondary sarcoma_, whether derived from a primary growth in the bone
or in the soft parts, is much rarer than secondary cancer. Its removal
by operation is usually contra-indicated, but we have known of cases
terminating fatally in which the _section_ revealed only one metastasis,
the removal of which would have benefited the patient.

In all of these conditions, examination of the bones with the X-rays
gives valuable information and often disclose unsuspected metastases.

_Cancer of Bone resulting from Direct Extension from Soft Parts._--In
this group there are also two clinical types. The first is met with in
relation to _epithelioma of a mucous surface_--for example, the palate,
tongue, gums, antrum, frontal sinus, auditory meatus, or middle ear.
They will be described under these special regions.

The second type is met with in relation to _epithelioma occurring in a
sinus_, the sequel of suppurative osteomyelitis, compound fracture, or
tuberculous disease. The patient has usually had a discharging sinus for
a great number of years: we have known it to last as many as fifty. The
epithelioma originates at the skin orifice of the sinus, and spreads to
the bone and into its interior, where the progress of the cancer is
resisted by dense bone, which obliterates the medullary canal. Although
its progress is slow, the infiltration of the bone is usually more
extensive than appears externally. It is recognised clinically by the
characteristic cauliflower growth at the orifice of the sinus, and by
the offensive na