 and partial rupture of the fibres of a muscle or its
aponeurosis. It is of common occurrence in athletes and in those who
follow laborious occupations. It may follow upon a single or repeated
effort--especially in those who are out of training. Familiar examples
of muscular sprain are the "labourer's" or "golfer's back," affecting
the latissimus dorsi or the sacrospinalis (erector spinae); the
"tennis-player's elbow," and the "sculler's sprain," affecting the
muscles and ligaments about the elbow; the "angler's elbow," affecting
the common origin of the extensors and supinators; the "sprinter's
sprain," affecting the flexors of the hip; and the "jumper's and
dancer's sprain," affecting the muscles of the calf. The patient
complains of pain, often sudden in onset, of tenderness on pressure, and
of inability to carry out the particular movement by which the sprain
was produced. The disability varies in different cases, and it may
incapacitate the patient from following his occupation or sport for
weeks or, if imperfectly treated, even for months.

The _treatment_ consists in resting the muscle from the particular
effort concerned in the production of the sprain, in gently exercising
it in other directions, in the use of massage, and the induction of
hyperaemia by means of heat. In neglected cases, that is, where the
muscle has not been exercised, the patient shrinks from using it and the
disablement threatens to be permanent; it is sometimes said that
adhesions have formed and that these interfere with the recovery of
function. The condition may be overcome by graduated movements or by a
sudden forcible movement under an anaesthetic. These cases afford a
fruitful field for the bone-setter.

#Rupture of Muscle or Tendon.#--A muscle or a tendon may be ruptured in
its continuity or torn from its attachment to bone. The site of rupture
in individual muscles is remarkably constant, and is usually at the
junction of the muscular and tendinous portions. When rupture takes
place through the belly of a muscle, the ends retract, the amount of
retraction depending on the length of the muscle, and the extent of its
attachment to adjacent aponeurosis or bone. The biceps in the arm, and
the sartorius in the thigh, furnish examples of muscles in which the
separation between the ends may be considerable.

The gap in the muscle becomes filled with blood, and this in time is
replaced by connective tissue, which forms a bond of union between the
ends. When the space is considerable the connecting medium consists of
fibrous tissue, but when the ends are in contact it contains a number of
newly formed muscle fibres. In the process of repair, one or both ends
of the muscle or tendon may become fixed by adhesions to adjacent
structures, and if the distal portion of a muscle is deprived of its
nerve supply it may undergo degeneration and so have its function
impaired.

Rupture of a muscle or tendon is usually the result of a sudden, and
often involuntary, movement. As examples may be cited the rupture of
the quadriceps extensor in attempting to regain the balance when falling
backwards; of the gastrocnemius, plantaris, or tendo-calcaneus in
jumping or dancing; of the adductors of the thigh in gripping a horse
when it swerves--"rider's sprain"; of the abdominal muscles in vomiting,
and of the biceps in sudden movements of the arm. Sometimes the effort
is one that would scarcely be thought likely to rupture a muscle, as in
the case recorded by Pagenstecher, where a professional athlete, while
sitting at table, ruptured his biceps in a sudden effort to catch a
falling glass. It would appear that the rupture is brought about not so
much by the contraction of the muscle concerned, as by the contraction
of the antagonistic muscles taking place before that of the muscle which
undergoes rupture is completed. The violent muscular contractions of
epilepsy, tetanus, or delirium rarely cause rupture.

The _clinical features_ are usually characteristic. The patient
experiences a sudden pain, with the sensation of being struck with a
whip, and of something giving way; sometimes a distant snap is heard.
The limb becomes powerless. At the seat of rupture there is tenderness
and swelling, and there may be ecchymosis. As the swelling subsides, a
gap may be felt between the retracted ends, and this becomes wider when
the muscle is thrown into contraction. If untreated, a hard, fibrous
cord remains at the seat of rupture.

_Treatment._--The ends are approximated by placing the limb in an
attitude which relaxes the muscle, and the position is maintained by
bandages, splints, or special apparatus. When it is impossible thus to
approximate the ends satisfactorily, the muscle or tendon is exposed by
incision, and the ends brought into accurate contact by catgut sutures.
This operation of primary suture yields the most satisfactory results,
and is most successful when it is done within five or six days of the
accident. Secondary suture after an interval of