f indurated pigmented cords and nodules (Fig. 104).
Lastly, the dissemination may be universal throughout the body, and this
usually occurs at a comparatively early stage. The secondary growths are
deeply pigmented, being usually of a coal-black colour, and melanin
pigment may be present in the urine. When recurrence takes place in or
near the scar left by the operation, the cancer nodules are not
necessarily pigmented.

[Illustration: FIG. 104.--Diffuse Melanotic Cancer of Lymphatics of Skin
secondary to a Growth in the Sole of the Foot.]

To extirpate the disease it is necessary to excise the tumour, with a
zone of healthy skin around it and a somewhat large zone of the
underlying subcutaneous tissue and deep fascia. Hogarth Pringle
recommends that a broad strip of subcutaneous fascia up to and including
the nearest anatomical group of glands should be removed with the tumour
in one continuous piece.

#Secondary Cancer of the Skin.#--Cancer may spread to the skin from a
subjacent growth by direct continuity or by way of the lymphatics. Both
of these processes are so well illustrated in cases of mammary cancer
that they will be described in relation to that disease.

#Sarcoma# of various types is met with in the skin. The fibroma, after
excision, may recur as a fibro-sarcoma. The alveolar sarcoma commences
as a hard lump and increases in size until the epidermis gives way and
an ulcer is formed.

[Illustration: FIG. 105.--Melanotic Cancer of Forehead with Metastases
in Lymph Vessels and Glands.

(Mr. D. P. D. Wilkie's case.)]

A number of fresh tumours may spring up around the original growth.
Sometimes the primary growth appears in the form of multiple nodules
which tend to become confluent. Excision, unless performed early, is of
little avail, and in any case should be followed up by exposure to
radium.


AFFECTIONS OF CICATRICES

A cicatrix or scar consists of closely packed bundles of white fibres
covered by epidermis; the skin glands and hair follicles are usually
absent. The size, shape, and level of the cicatrix depend upon the
conditions which preceded healing.

A healthy scar, when recently formed, has a smooth, glossy surface of a
pinkish colour, which tends to become whiter as a result of obliteration
of the blood vessels concerned in its formation.

_Weak Scars._--A scar is said to be weak when it readily breaks down as
a result of irritation or pressure. The scars resulting from severe
burns and those over amputation stumps are especially liable to break
down from trivial causes. The treatment is to excise the weak portion of
the scar and bring the edges of the gap together.

_Contracted scars_ frequently cause deformity either by displacing
parts, such as the eyelid or lip, or by fixing parts and preventing the
normal movements--for example, a scar on the flexor aspect of a joint
may prevent extension of the forearm (Fig. 63). These are treated by
dividing the scar, correcting the deformity, and filling up the gap with
epithelial grafts, or with a flap of the whole thickness of the skin.
When deformity results from _depression of a scar_, as is not uncommon
after the healing of a sinus, the treatment is to excise the scar.
Depressed scars may be raised by the injection of paraffin into the
subcutaneous tissue.

_Painful Scars._--Pain in relation to a scar is usually due to nerve
fibres being compressed or stretched in the cicatricial tissue; and in
some cases to ascending neuritis. The treatment consists in excising the
scar or in stretching or excising a portion of the nerve affected.

_Pigmented or Discoloured Scars._--The best-known examples are the blue
coloration which results from coal-dust or gunpowder, the brown scars
resulting from chronic ulcer with venous congestion of the leg, and the
variously coloured scars caused by tattooing. The only satisfactory
method of getting rid of the coloration is to excise the scar; the edges
are brought together by sutures, or the raw surface is covered with
skin-grafts according to the size of the gap.

_Hypertrophied Scars._--Scars occasionally broaden out and become
prominent, and on exposed parts this may prove a source of
disappointment after operations such as those for goitre or tuberculous
glands in the neck. There is sometimes considerable improvement from
exposure to the X-rays.

_Keloid._--This term is applied to an overgrowth of scar tissue which
extends beyond the area of the original wound, and the name is derived
from the fact that this extension occurs in the form of radiating
processes, suggesting the claws of a crab. It is essentially a fibroma
or new growth of fibrous tissue, which commences in relation to the
walls of the smaller blood vessels; the bundles of fibrous tissue are
for the most part parallel with the surface, and the epidermis is
tightly stretched over them. It is more frequent in the negro and in
those who are, or have been, the subjects of tuberculous disease.

[Illustration: FIG. 106.--Recurrent Keloid in scar lef