estigation was a vigorous report in favor of a national budget
system, which soon found public backing.

President Taft negotiated with England and France general treaties
providing for the arbitration of disputes which were "justiciable" in
character even though they might involve questions of "vital interest
and national honor." They were coldly received in the Senate and so
amended that Taft abandoned them altogether. A tariff reciprocity
agreement with Canada, however, he forced through Congress in the face
of strong opposition from his own party. After making a serious breach
in Republican ranks, he was chagrined to see the whole scheme come to
naught by the overthrow of the Liberals in the Canadian elections of
1911.

=Prosecution of the Trusts.=--The party schism was even enlarged by what
appeared to be the successful prosecution of several great combinations.
In two important cases, the Supreme Court ordered the dissolution of the
Standard Oil Company and the American Tobacco Company on the ground that
they violated the Sherman Anti-Trust law. In taking this step Chief
Justice White was at some pains to state that the law did not apply to
combinations which did not "unduly" restrain trade. His remark,
construed to mean that the Court would not interfere with corporations
as such, became the subject of a popular outcry against the President
and the judges.


PROGRESSIVE INSURGENCY AND THE ELECTION OF 1912

=Growing Dissensions.=--All in all, Taft's administration from the first
day had been disturbed by party discord. High words had passed over the
tariff bill and disgruntled members of Congress could not forget them.
To differences over issues were added quarrels between youth and old
age. In the House of Representatives there developed a group of young
"insurgent" Republicans who resented the dominance of the Speaker,
Joseph G. Cannon, and other members of the "old guard," as they named
the men of long service and conservative minds. In 1910, the insurgents
went so far as to join with the Democrats in a movement to break the
Speaker's sway by ousting him from the rules committee and depriving him
of the power to appoint its members. The storm was brewing. In the
autumn of that year the Democrats won a clear majority in the House of
Representatives and began an open battle with President Taft by
demanding an immediate downward revision of the tariff.

=The Rise of the Progressive Republicans.=--Preparatory to the campaign
of 1912, the dissenters within the Republican party added the prefix
"Progressive" to their old title and began to organize a movement to
prevent the renomination of Mr. Taft. As early as January 21, 1911, they
formed a Progressive Republican League at the home of Senator La
Follette of Wisconsin and launched an attack on the Taft measures and
policies. In October they indorsed Mr. La Follette as "the logical
Republican candidate" and appealed to the party for support. The
controversy over the tariff had grown into a formidable revolt against
the occupant of the White House.

=Roosevelt in the Field.=--After looking on for a while, ex-President
Roosevelt took a hand in the fray. Soon after his return in 1910 from a
hunting trip in Africa and a tour in Europe, he made a series of
addresses in which he formulated a progressive program. In a speech in
Kansas, he favored regulation of the trusts, a graduated income tax
bearing heavily on great fortunes, tariff revision schedule by schedule,
conservation of natural resources, labor legislation, the direct
primary, and the recall of elective officials. In an address before the
Ohio state constitutional convention in February, 1912, he indorsed the
initiative and referendum and announced a doctrine known as the "recall
of judicial decisions." This was a new and radical note in American
politics. An ex-President of the United States proposed that the people
at the polls should have the right to reverse the decision of a judge
who set aside any act of a state legislature passed in the interests of
social welfare. The Progressive Republicans, impressed by these
addresses, turned from La Follette to Roosevelt and on February 24,
induced him to come out openly as a candidate against Taft for the
Republican nomination.

=The Split in the Republican Party.=--The country then witnessed the
strange spectacle of two men who had once been close companions engaged
in a bitter rivalry to secure a majority of the delegates to the
Republican convention to be held at Chicago. When the convention
assembled, about one-fourth of the seats were contested, the delegates
for both candidates loudly proclaiming the regularity of their election.
In deciding between the contestants the national committee, after the
usual hearings, settled the disputes in such a way that Taft received a
safe majority. After a week of negotiation, Roosevelt and his followers
left the Republican party. Most of his supporters withdrew from the
convention and the few who remained behin