e it, so
that the continuity of the bone is maintained only by tumour tissue, and
pathological fracture is a frequent result. The small round-celled
sarcomas are among the most malignant tumours of bone, growing with
great rapidity, and at an early stage giving rise to secondary growths.

(2) The second group includes the _fibro-_, _osteo-_, and
_chondro-sarcomas_, and combinations of these; in all of them fully
formed tissues or attempts at fully formed tissues predominate over the
cellular elements. They grow chiefly from the deeper layer of the
periosteum, and at first form a projection on the surface, but later
tend to surround the bone (Fig. 150), and to invade its interior,
filling up the marrow spaces with a white, bone-like substance; in the
flat bones of the skull they may traverse the diploe and erupt on the
inner table. The tumour tissue next the shaft consists of a dense,
white, homogeneous material, from which there radiate into the softer
parts of the tumour, spicules, needles, and plates, often exhibiting a
fan-like arrangement (Fig. 151). The peripheral portion consists of soft
sarcomatous tissue, which invades the overlying soft parts. The
articular cartilage long resists destruction. The ossifying sarcoma is
met with most often in the femur and tibia, less frequently in the
humerus, skull, pelvis, and jaws. In the long bones it may grow from the
shaft, while the chondro-sarcoma more often originates at the
extremities. Sometimes they are multiple, several tumours appearing
simultaneously or one after another. Secondary growths are met with
chiefly in the lungs, metastasis taking place by way of the veins.

[Illustration: FIG. 146.--Periosteal Sarcoma of Femur in a young
subject.]

[Illustration: FIG. 147.--Periosteal Sarcoma of Humerus, after
maceration.

(Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)]

_Clinical Features._--Sarcoma is usually met with before the age of
thirty, and is comparatively common in children. Males suffer oftener
than females, in the proportion of two to one.

In _periosteal sarcoma_ the presence of a swelling is usually the first
symptom; the tumour is fusiform, firm, and regular in outline, and when
it occurs near the end of a long bone the limb frequently assumes a
characteristic "leg of mutton" shape (Fig. 146). The surface may be
uniform or bossed, the consistence varies at different parts, and the
swelling gradually tapers off along the shaft. On firm pressure, fine
crepitation may be felt from crushing of the delicate framework of new
bone.

[Illustration: FIG. 148.--Chondro-Sarcoma of Scapula in a man aet. 63;
removal of the scapula was followed two years later by metastases and
death.]

In _central sarcoma_ pain is the first symptom, and it is usually
constant, dull, and aching; is not obviously increased by use of the
limb, but is often worse at night. Swelling occurs late, and is due to
expansion of the bone; it is fusiform or globular, and is at first
densely hard, but in time there may be parchment-like or egg-shell
crackling from yielding of the thin shell. The swelling may pulsate, and
a bruit may be heard over it. In advanced cases it may be impossible to
differentiate between a periosteal and a central tumour, either
clinically or after the specimen has been laid open.

Pathological fracture is more common in central tumours, and sometimes
is the first sign that calls attention to the condition. Consolidation
rarely takes place, although there is often an attempt at union by the
formation of cartilaginous callus.

[Illustration: FIG. 149.--Central Sarcoma of Lower End of Femur,
invading the knee-joint.

(Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)]

[Illustration: FIG. 150.--Osseous Shell of Osteo-Sarcoma of Upper Third
of Femur, after maceration.]

The soft parts over the tumour for a long time preserve their normal
appearance; or they become oedematous, and the subcutaneous venous
network is evident through the skin. Elevation of the temperature over
the tumour, which may amount to two degrees or more, is a point of
diagnostic significance, as it suggests an inflammatory lesion.

The adjacent joint usually remains intact, although its movements may be
impaired by the bulk of the tumour or by effusion into the cavity.

Enlargement of the neighbouring lymph glands does not necessarily imply
that they have become infected with sarcoma for the enlargement may
disappear after removal of the primary growth; actual infection of the
glands, however, does sometimes occur, and in them the histological
structure of the parent tumour is reproduced.

To obtain a reasonable prospect of cure, the _diagnosis_ must be made at
an early stage. Great reliance is to be placed on information gained by
examination with the X-rays.

[Illustration: FIG. 151.--Radiogram of Osteo-Sarcoma of Upper Third
of Femur.]

_X-ray Appearances._--In periosteal tumours that do not ossify, there is
merely erosion of bone, and the shadow is not unlike that given by
caries; in ossif