rgues against the embolic origin of the metastases in the bones
because of the rarity of these in the bones of the distal parts of the
limbs, because of the fact that secondary cancer of the femur nearly
always commences in the upper third of the shaft, which harmonises with
the intimate connection of the deep fascia with the periosteum over the
great trochanter, thus favouring invasion of the bone marrow when
permeation has spread thus far. He claims support for the permeation
theory from the fact that the humerus is rarely involved below the
insertion of the deltoid, and that spontaneous fracture of the femur is
three times more common on the side on which the breast cancer is
situated.

The tumour tissue may undergo necrosis, and when the overlying skin or
mucous membrane gives way an ulcer is formed. The margins of a
_cancerous ulcer_ (Fig. 57) are made up of tumour tissue which has not
broken down. Usually they are irregular, nodularly thickened or
indurated; sometimes they are raised and crater-like. The floor of the
ulcer is smooth and glazed, or occupied by necrosed tissue, and the
discharge is watery and blood-stained, and as a result of putrefactive
changes may become offensive. Haemorrhage is rarely a prominent feature,
but discharge of blood may constitute a symptom of considerable
diagnostic importance in cancer of internal organs such as the rectum,
the bladder, or the uterus.

[Illustration: FIG. 57.--Carcinoma of Breast with Cancerous Ulcer.]

_The Contagiousness of Cancer._--A limited number of cases are on record
in which a cancer appears to have been transferred by contact, as from
the lower to the upper lip, from one labium majus to the other, from the
tongue to the cheek, and from one vocal cord to the other; these being
all examples of cancer involving surfaces which are constantly or
frequently in contact. The transference of cancer from one human being
to another, whether by accident, as in the case of a surgeon wounding
his finger while operating for cancer, or by the deliberate introduction
of a portion of cancerous tumour into the tissues, has never been known
to occur. It is by no means infrequent, however, that when recurrence
takes place after an operation for the removal of cancer, the recurrent
nodules make their appearance in the main scar or in the scars of
stitches in its neighbourhood. In the lower animals the grafting of
cancer only succeeds in animals of the same species; for example, a
cancer taken from a mouse will not grow in the tissues of a rat, but
only in a mouse of the same variety as that from which the graft was
taken.

While cancer cannot be regarded as either contagious or infectious, it
is important to bear in mind the possibility of infection of a wound
with cancer when operating for the disease. A cancer should not be cut
into unless this is essential for purposes of diagnosis, and the wound
made for exploration should be tightly closed by stitches before the
curative operation is proceeded with; the instruments used for the
exploration must not be used again until they have been boiled. The
greatest care should be taken that a cancer which has softened or broken
down is not opened into during the operation.

Investigations regarding the cause of cancer have been prosecuted with
great energy during recent years, but as yet without positive result. It
is recognised that there are a number of conditions which favour the
development of cancer, such as prolonged irritation, and a considerable
number of cases have been recorded in which cancer of the skin of the
hands has followed prolonged and repeated exposure to the Rontgen rays.

_The Alleged Increase of Cancer._--Regarding the alleged increase of
cancer, it may be pointed out that it is impossible to ascertain how
much of the apparent increase is due to more accurate diagnosis and
improved registration. It is probable also that some increase has taken
place in consequence of the increased average duration of life; a larger
proportion of persons now reach the age at which cancer is frequent.

_The prognosis_ largely depends on the variety of cancer and on its
situation. Certain varieties--such as the atrophic cancer of the breast
which occurs in old people, and some forms of cancer in the rectum--are
so indolent in their progress that they can scarcely be said to shorten
life; while others--such as the softer varieties of mammary cancer
occurring in young women--are among the most malignant of tumours. The
mode in which cancer causes death depends to a large extent upon its
situation. In the gullet, for example, it usually causes death by
starvation; in the larynx or thyreoid, by suffocation; in the intestine,
by obstruction of the bowels; in the uterus, prostate, and bladder, by
haemorrhage or by implication of the ureters and kidneys. Independently
of their situation, however, cancers frequently cause death by giving
rise to a progressive impairment of health known as the _cancerous
cachexia_, a conditio