eld that they owed their origin to the
liquefaction of a solid tumour, such as a myeloma, a chondroma, or even
a sarcoma. Although the tissue elements in this disease resemble those
of a new growth arising in the marrow, they differ in their arrangement
and in their method of growth; there is no tendency to erupt through the
cortex of the bone, to invade the soft parts, or to give rise to
secondary growths.

_Clinical Features._--The onset of the disease is insidious, and
attention is usually first directed to it by the occurrence of fracture
of the shaft of one of the long bones--usually the femur--from violence
that would be insufficient to break a healthy bone. Apart from fracture,
the great increase in the size of one of the long bones and its uneven
contour are sufficiently remarkable to suggest examination with the
X-rays, by means of which the condition is at once recognised. A
systematic examination of the other long bones will often reveal the
presence of the disease at a stage before the bone is altered
externally.

Symmetrical bossing of the skull was present in the case shown in
Figs. 136 and 137, and there were also scattered patches of brown
pigmentation of the skin of the face, neck, and trunk, similar to those
met with in generalised neuro-fibromatosis. Apart from fracture, the
disease is recognised by the thickening and usually also by the curving
of the shafts of the long bones. It is easy to understand the curvature
of bones that have passed through a soft stage and also of those that
have been broken and badly united, but it is difficult to account for
the curvatures that have no such cause; for example, we have seen
marked curve of the radius in a forearm of which the ulna was quite
straight. The curvature probably resulted from exaggerated growth in
length.

[Illustration: FIG. 137.--Radiogram of Upper End of Femur showing
appearances in Osteomyelitis Fibrosa.]

The X-ray appearances vary with the stage of the malady, not estimated
in time, for the condition is chronic and may become stationary, but
according to whether it is progressive or undergoing repair. The shadow
of the bone presents a poor contrast to the soft parts, and no trace of
its original architecture; in extreme cases the shadow of the femur
resembles an unevenly filled sausage (Fig. 137); there is no cortical
layer, the interior shows no trabecular structure, and some of the many
clear areas are probably cysts. The condition extends right up to the
articular cartilage, or, in the case of adolescent bones, up to the
epiphysial cartilage.

_Prognosis._--The condition does not appear to affect the general
health. The future is concerned with the local conditions, and,
especially in the case of the femur, with its liability to fracture; so
far as we know there is no time limit to this.

_Treatment_ is confined to protecting the affected bone--usually the
femur--from injury. Operative treatment may be required for lameness due
to a badly united fracture.

#Neuropathic Atrophy of Bone.#--The conditions included under this
heading occur in association with diseases of the nervous system.

Most importance attaches to the fragility of the bones met with in
general paralysis of the insane, locomotor ataxia, and other chronic
diseases of the brain and spinal cord. The bones are liable to be
fractured by forces which would be insufficient to break a healthy bone.
In _locomotor ataxia_ the fractures affect especially the bones of the
lower extremity, and may occur before there are any definite nerve
symptoms, but they are more often met with in the ataxic stage, when the
abrupt and uncontrolled movements of the limbs may play a part in their
causation. They may be unattended with pain, and may fail to unite; when
repair does take place, it is sometimes attended with an excessive
formation of callus. Joint lesions of the nature of Charcot's disease
may occur simultaneously with the alterations in the bones. In
_syringomyelia_ pathological fracture is not so frequent as in locomotor
ataxia; it is more likely to occur in the bones of the upper extremity,
and especially in the humerus. In some cases of _epilepsy_ the bones
break when the patient falls in a fit, and there is usually an
exaggerated amount of comminution.

In these affections the bones present no histological or chemical
alterations, and the X-ray shadow does not differ from the normal. It is
maintained, therefore, that the disposition to fracture does not depend
upon a fragility of the bone, but on the loss of the muscular sense and
of common sensation in the bones, as a result of which there is an
inability properly to throw the muscles into action and dispose the
limbs so as to place them under the most favourable conditions to meet
external violence.

#Osteogenesis Imperfecta#, #Fragilitas Ossium#, or #Congenital
Osteopsathyrosis#.--These terms are used to describe a condition in
which an undue fragility of the bones dates from intra-uterine life. It
may occur in seve