 time, the government of the state has presented
two different lines of activity: one, of the constitutional and
statutory officers of the state and the other of the party leaders; they
call them party bosses. They call the system--I don't coin the
phrase--the system they call 'invisible government.' For I don't know
how many years Mr. Conkling was the supreme ruler in this state. The
governor did not count, the legislature did not count, comptrollers and
secretaries of state and what not did not count. It was what Mr.
Conkling said, and in a great outburst of public rage he was pulled
down. Then Mr. Platt ruled the state; for nigh upon twenty years he
ruled it. It was not the governor; it was not the legislature; it was
Mr. Platt. And the capital was not here [in Albany]; it was at 49
Broadway; Mr. Platt and his lieutenants. It makes no difference what
name you give, whether you call it Fenton or Conkling or Cornell or
Arthur or Platt or by the names of men now living. The ruler of the
state during the greater part of the forty years of my acquaintance with
the state government has not been any man authorized by the constitution
or by law.... The party leader is elected by no one, accountable to no
one, bound by no oath of office, removable by no one."

=The Nation Aroused.=--With the spirit of criticism came also the spirit
of reform. The charges were usually exaggerated; often wholly false; but
there was enough truth in them to warrant renewed vigilance on the part
of American democracy. President Roosevelt doubtless summed up the
sentiment of the great majority of citizens when he demanded the
punishment of wrong-doers in 1907, saying: "It makes not a particle of
difference whether these crimes are committed by a capitalist or by a
laborer, by a leading banker or manufacturer or railroad man or by a
leading representative of a labor union. Swindling in stocks, corrupting
legislatures, making fortunes by the inflation of securities, by
wrecking railroads, by destroying competitors through rebates--these
forms of wrong-doing in the capitalist are far more infamous than any
ordinary form of embezzlement or forgery." The time had come, he added,
to stop "muckraking" and proceed to the constructive work of removing
the abuses that had grown up.


POLITICAL REFORMS

=The Public Service.=--It was a wise comprehension of the needs of
American democracy that led the friends of reform to launch and to
sustain for more than half a century a movement to improve the public
service. On the one side they struck at the spoils system; at the right
of the politicians to use public offices as mere rewards for partisan
work. The federal civil service act of 1883 opened the way to reform by
establishing five vital principles in law: (1) admission to office, not
on the recommendation of party workers, but on the basis of competitive
examinations; (2) promotion for meritorious service of the government
rather than of parties; (3) no assessment of office holders for campaign
funds; (4) permanent tenure during good behavior; and (5) no dismissals
for political reasons. The act itself at first applied to only 14,000
federal offices, but under the constant pressure from the reformers it
was extended until in 1916 it covered nearly 300,000 employees out of an
executive force of approximately 414,000. While gaining steadily at
Washington, civil service reformers carried their agitation into the
states and cities. By 1920 they were able to report ten states with
civil service commissions and the merit system well intrenched in more
than three hundred municipalities.

In excluding spoilsmen from public office, the reformers were, in a
sense, engaged in a negative work: that of "keeping the rascals out."
But there was a second and larger phase to their movement, one
constructive in character: that of getting skilled, loyal, and efficient
servants into the places of responsibility. Everywhere on land and sea,
in town and country, new burdens were laid upon public officers. They
were called upon to supervise the ships sailing to and from our ports;
to inspect the water and milk supplies of our cities; to construct and
operate great public works, such as the Panama and Erie canals; to
regulate the complicated rates of railway companies; to safeguard health
and safety in a thousand ways; to climb the mountains to fight forest
fires; and to descend into the deeps of the earth to combat the deadly
coal gases that assail the miners. In a word, those who labored to
master the secrets and the powers of nature were summoned to the aid of
the government: chemists, engineers, architects, nurses, surgeons,
foresters--the skilled in all the sciences, arts, and crafts.

Keeping rascals out was no task at all compared with the problem of
finding competent people for all the technical offices. "Now," said the
reformers, "we must make attractive careers in the government work for
the best American talent; we must train those applying for admission and
