 from intra-uterine life and probably due to a disturbance in the
function of the glands of internal secretion, the thyreoid being the one
which is most likely to be at fault (Arthur Keith). The disorder of
growth is confined to those elements of the skeleton where a core of
bone formed in cartilage comes to be encased in a sheath of bone formed
beneath the periosteum. To indicate this abnormality the name
_diaphysial aclasis_ has been employed by Arthur Keith at the suggestion
of Morley Roberts.

Bones formed entirely in cartilage are exempt, namely, the tarsal and
carpal bones, the epiphyses of the long bones, the sternum, and the
bodies of the vertebrae. Bones formed entirely in membrane, that is,
those of the face and of the cranial vault, are also exempt. The
disorder mainly affects the ossifying junctions of the long bones of the
extremities, the vertebral border of the scapula, and the cristal border
of the ilium.

_Clinically_ the disease is attended with the gradual and painless
development during childhood or adolescence of a number of tumours or
irregular projections of bone, at the ends of the long bones, the
vertebral border of the scapula, and the cristal border of the ilium.
They exhibit a rough symmetry; they rarely attain any size; and they
usually cease growing when the skeleton attains maturity--the conversion
of cartilage into bone being then completed. While they originate from
the ossifying junctions of the long bones, they tend, as the shaft
increases in length, to project from the surface of the bone at some
distance from the ossifying junction and to "point" away from it. They
may cause symptoms by "locking" the adjacent joint or by pressing upon
nerve-trunks or blood vessels.

In a considerable proportion of cases, the disturbance of growth is
further manifested by dwarfing of the long bones; these are not only
deficient in length but are sometimes also curved and misshapen, which
accounts for the condition being occasionally confused with the
disturbances of growth resulting from rickets. In about one-third of the
recorded cases there is a dislocation of the head of the radius on one
or on both sides, a result of unequal growth between the bones of the
forearm.

[Illustration: FIG. 140.--Multiple Cartilaginous Exostoses in a
man aet. 27. The scapular tumour projecting above the right clavicle has
taken on active growth and pressed injuriously on the cords of the
brachial plexus.]

In early adult life, one of the tumours, instead of undergoing
ossification, may take on active growth and exhibit the features of a
chondro-sarcoma, pressing injuriously upon adjacent structures (Fig. 140)
and giving rise later to metastases in the lungs.

The _X-ray appearances_ of the bones affected are of a striking
character; apart from the outgrowths of bone or "tumours" there is
evident a widespread alteration in the internal architecture of the
bones, which suggests analogies with other disturbances of ossification
such as achondroplasia and osteomyelitis fibrosa. The condition is one
that runs in families, sometimes through several generations; we have
more than once seen a father and son together in the hospital
waiting-room.

As regards _treatment_, there is no indication for surgical interference
except when one or other tumour is a source of disability as by pressing
upon a nerve-trunk or by locking a joint, in which case it is easily
removed by chiselling through its neck.

[Illustration: FIG. 141.--Multiple Cartilaginous Exostoses in a
man aet. 27, the same as in Fig. 140.]

_Diffuse Osteoma, Leontiasis Ossea._--This rare affection was described
by Virchow, and named leontiasis ossea because of the disfigurement to
which it gives rise. It usually commences in adolescence as a diffuse
overgrowth first of one and then of both maxillae; these bones are
enlarged in all directions and project on the face, and the nasal fossae
and the maxillary and frontal sinuses become filled up with bone, which
encroaches also on the orbital cavities. In addition to the hideous
deformity, the patient suffers from blocking of the nose, loss of smell,
and protrusion of the eyes, sometimes followed by loss of sight. The
condition is liable to spread to the zygomatic and frontal bones, the
vault of the skull, and to the mandible. The base of the skull is not
affected. The disease is of slow progress and may become arrested; life
may be prolonged for many years, or may be terminated by brain
complications or by intercurrent affections. In certain cases it is
possible to remove some of the more disfiguring of the bony masses.

A less aggressive form, confined to the maxilla on one side, is
sometimes met with, and, in a case of this variety under our own
observation, the disfigurement, which was the only subject of complaint,
was removed, after reflecting the soft parts, by paring away the excess
of bone; this is easily done as the bone is spongy, and at an early
stage, imperfectly calcified.

A remarkable form of _