 startings at night, and prevents abnormal attitudes of
the limb. If, when the patient first comes under observation, the limb
is in a deformed attitude which does not readily yield to extension, the
deformity should be corrected under an anaesthetic.

_The induction of hyperaemia_ is often helpful, the rubber bandage or the
hot-air chamber being employed for an hour or so morning and evening.

_Injection of Iodoform._--This is carried out on the same lines as have
been described for tuberculous abscess. After the fluid contents of the
joint are withdrawn, the iodoform is injected; and this may require to
be repeated in a month or six weeks.

After the injection of iodoform there is usually considerable reaction,
attended with fever (101 o F.), headache, and malaise, and considerable
pain and swelling of the joint. In some cases there is sickness, and
there may be blood pigment in the urine. The severity of these phenomena
diminishes with each subsequent injection.

The use of Scott's dressing and of blisters and of the actual cautery
has largely gone out of fashion, but the cautery may still be employed
with benefit for the relief of pain in cases in which ulceration of
cartilage is a prominent feature.

The application of the X-rays has proved beneficial in synovial lesions
in superficial joints such as the wrist or elbow; prolonged exposures
are made at fortnightly intervals, and on account of the cicatricial
contraction which attends upon recovery, the joint must be kept in good
position.

Conservative treatment is only abandoned if improvement does not show
itself after a thorough trial, or if the disease relapses after apparent
cure.

_Operative Treatment._--Other things being equal, operation is more
often indicated in adults than in children, because after the age of
twenty there is less prospect of recovery under conservative treatment,
there is more tendency for the disease to relapse and to invade the
internal organs, and there is no fear of interfering with the growth of
the bones. The state of the general health may necessitate operation as
the most rapid method of removing the disease. The social status of the
patient must also be taken into account; the bread-winner, under
existing social conditions, may be unable to give up his work for a
sufficient time to give conservative measures a fair trial.

The _local conditions_ which decide for or against operation are
differently regarded by different surgeons, but it may be said in
general terms that operative interference is indicated in cases in which
the disease continues to progress in spite of a fair trial of
conservative measures; in cases unsuited for conservative
treatment--that is to say, where there are severe bone lesions.
Operative interference is indicated also when the functional result will
be better than that likely to be obtained by conservative measures, as
is often the case in the knee and elbow. Cold abscesses should, if
possible, be dealt with before operating on the joint.

In many cases the extent of the operation can only be decided after
exploration. The aim is to remove all the disease with the least
impairment of function and the minimum sacrifice of healthy tissue. The
more open the method of operating the better, so that all parts of the
joint may be available for inspection. The methods of Kocher, which
permit of dislocating the joint, are specially to be recommended, as
this procedure affords the freest possible access. Diseased synovial
membrane is removed with the scissors or knife. If the cartilages are
sound, and if a movable joint is aimed at, they may be left; but if
ankylosis is desired, they must be removed. Localised disease of the
cartilage should be removed with the spoon or gouge, and the bone
beneath investigated. If the articular surface is extensively diseased,
a thin slice of bone should be removed, and if foci in the marrow are
then revealed, it is better to gouge them out than to remove further
slices of bone, as this involves sacrifice of the cortex and periosteum.

Operative treatment of deformities resulting from tuberculous joint
disease has almost entirely replaced reduction by force; the contracted
soft parts are divided, and the bone is resected.

_Amputation_ for tuberculous joint disease has become one of the rare
operations of surgery, and is only justified when less radical measures
have failed and the condition of the limb is affecting the general
health. Amputation is more frequently called for in persons past middle
life who are the subjects of pulmonary tuberculosis.


SYPHILITIC DISEASE

Syphilitic affections of joints are comparatively rare. As in
tuberculosis, the disease may be first located in the synovial membrane,
or it may spread to the joint from one of the bones.

In #acquired syphilis#, at an early stage and before the skin eruptions
appear, one of the large joints, such as the shoulder or knee, may be
the seat of pain--_arthralgia_--which is worse at night. In the
seconda