nding parts. In cancer of the breast, for example, the disease
often extends to the adjacent skin, fat, and muscle; in cancer of the
lip or tongue, to the mandible; in cancer of the uterus or intestine, to
the investing peritoneum.

In addition to its tendency to infiltrate adjacent tissues and organs,
cancer is also liable to give rise to _secondary growths_. These are
most often met with in the nearest lymph glands; those in the neck, for
example, becoming infected from cancer of the lip, tongue, or throat;
those in the axilla, from cancer of the breast; those along the
curvatures of the stomach, from cancer of the pylorus; and those in the
groin, from cancer of the external genitals. In lymph vessels the cancer
cells may merely accumulate so as to fill the lumen and form indurated
cords, or they may proliferate and give rise to secondary nodules along
the course of the vessels. When the lymphatic network in the skin is
diffusely infected, the appearance is either that of a multitude of
secondary nodules or of a diffuse thickening, so that the skin comes to
resemble coarse leather. On the wall of the chest this condition is
known as _cancer en cuirasse_. Although the cancer cells constantly
attack the walls of the adjacent veins and spread into their interior at
a comparatively early period, secondary growths due to dissemination by
the blood-stream rarely show themselves clinically until late in the
course of the disease. It is probable that many of the cancer cells
which are carried away in the blood or lymph stream undergo necrosis and
fail to give rise to secondary growths. Secondary growths present a
faithful reproduction of the structure of the primary tumour. Apart from
the lymph glands, the chief seats of secondary growths are the liver,
lungs, serous membranes, and bone marrow.

It is generally believed that the secondary growths in cancer that
develop at a distance from the primary tumour, those, for example, in
the medullary canal of the femur or in the diploe of the skull occurring
in advanced cases of cancer of the breast, are the result of
dissemination of cancer cells by way of the blood-stream and are to be
regarded as emboli. Sampson Handley disagrees with this view; he
believes that the dissemination is accomplished in a more subtle way,
namely, by the actual growth of cancer cells along the finer vessels of
the lymph plexuses that ramify in the deep fascia, a method of spread
which he calls _permeation_. It is maintained also that permeation
occurs as readily against the lymph stream as with it. He compares the
spread of cancer to that of an invisible annular ringworm. The growing
edge extends in a wider and wider circle, within which a healing process
may occur, so that the area of permeation is a ring, rather than a disc.
Healing occurs by a process of "peri-lymphatic fibrosis," but as the
natural process of healing may fail at isolated points, nodules of
cancer appear, which, although apparently separate from the primary
growth, have developed in continuity with it, peri-lymphatic fibrosis
having destroyed the cancer chain connecting the nodule with the primary
growth. This centrifugal spread of cancer is clearly seen in the
distribution of the subcutaneous secondary nodules so frequently met
with in the late stages of mammary cancer. The area within which the
secondary nodules occur is a circle of continually increasing diameter
with the primary growth in the centre.

In the rare cases in which the skin of the greater part of the body is
affected, the nodules rarely appear below the level of the deltoid or
the middle third of the thigh, the patient dying before the spread can
reach the distal portions of the limbs.

Handley argues against the embolic origin of the metastases in the bones
because of the rarity of these in the bones of the distal parts of the
limbs, because of the fact that secondary cancer of the femur nearly
always commences in the upper third of the shaft, which harmonises with
the intimate connection of the deep fascia with the periosteum over the
great trochanter, thus favouring invasion of the bone marrow when
permeation has spread thus far. He claims support for the permeation
theory from the fact that the humerus is rarely involved below the
insertion of the deltoid, and that spontaneous fracture of the femur is
three times more common on the side on which the breast cancer is
situated.

The tumour tissue may undergo necrosis, and when the overlying skin or
mucous membrane gives way an ulcer is formed. The margins of a
_cancerous ulcer_ (Fig. 57) are made up of tumour tissue which has not
broken down. Usually they are irregular, nodularly thickened or
indurated; sometimes they are raised and crater-like. The floor of the
ulcer is smooth and glazed, or occupied by necrosed tissue, and the
discharge is watery and blood-stained, and as a result of putrefactive
changes may become offensive. Haemorrhage is rarely a prominent feature,
but discharge of blood may cons