r of delicate connective tissue; and
still farther out a dense tissue composed of longitudinally arranged
elastic fibres--the internal elastic lamina. The tunica intima is easily
ruptured. The middle coat, or _tunica media_, consists of non-striped
muscular fibres, arranged for the most part concentrically round the
vessel. In this coat also there is a considerable proportion of elastic
tissue, especially in the larger vessels. The thickness of the vessel
wall depends chiefly on the development of the muscular coat. The
external coat, or _tunica externa_, is composed of fibrous tissue,
containing, especially in vessels of medium calibre, some yellow elastic
fibres in its deeper layers.

In most parts of the body the arteries lie in a sheath of connective
tissue, from which fine fibrous processes pass to the tunica externa.
The connection, however, is not a close one, and the artery when divided
transversely is capable of retracting for a considerable distance within
its sheath. In some of the larger arteries the sheath assumes the form
of a definite membrane.

The arteries are nourished by small vessels--the _vasa vasorum_--which
ramify chiefly in the outer coat. They are also well supplied with
nerves, which regulate the size of the lumen by inducing contraction or
relaxation of the muscular coat.

The _veins_ are constructed on the same general plan as the arteries,
the individual coats, however, being thinner. The inner coat is less
easily ruptured, and the middle coat contains a smaller proportion of
muscular tissue. In one important point veins differ structurally from
arteries--namely, in being provided with valves which prevent reflux of
the blood. These valves are composed of semilunar folds of the tunica
intima strengthened by an addition of connective tissue. Each valve
usually consists of two semilunar flaps attached to opposite sides of
the vessel wall, each flap having a small sinus on its cardiac side.
The distension of these sinuses with blood closes the valve and
prevents regurgitation. Valves are absent from the superior and inferior
venae cavae, the portal vein and its tributaries, the hepatic, renal,
uterine, and spermatic veins, and from the veins in the lower part of
the rectum. They are ill-developed or absent also in the iliac and
common femoral veins--a fact which has an important bearing on the
production of varix in the veins of the lower extremity.

The wall of _capillaries_ consists of a single layer of endothelial
cells.


HAEMORRHAGE

Various terms are employed in relation to haemorrhage, according to its
seat, its origin, the time at which it occurs, and other circumstances.

The term _external haemorrhage_ is employed when the blood escapes on the
surface; when the bleeding takes place into the tissues or into a cavity
it is spoken of as _internal_. The blood may infiltrate the connective
tissue, constituting an _extravasation_ of blood; or it may collect in a
space or cavity and form a _haematoma_.

The coughing up of blood from the lungs is known as _haemoptysis_;
vomiting of blood from the stomach, as _haematemesis_; the passage of
black-coloured stools due to the presence of blood altered by digestion,
as _melaena_; and the passage of bloody urine, as _haematuria_.

Haemorrhage is known as arterial, venous, or capillary, according to the
nature of the vessel from which it takes place.

In _arterial_ haemorrhage the blood is bright red in colour, and escapes
from the cardiac end of the divided vessel in pulsating jets
synchronously with the systole of the heart. In vascular parts--for
example the face--both ends of a divided artery bleed freely. The blood
flowing from an artery may be dark in colour if the respiration is
impeded. When the heart's action is weak and the blood tension low the
flow may appear to be continuous and not in jets. The blood from a
divided artery at the bottom of a deep wound, escapes on the surface in
a steady flow.

_Venous_ bleeding is not pulsatile, but occurs in a continuous stream,
which, although both ends of the vessel may bleed, is more copious from
the distal end. The blood is dark red under ordinary conditions, but may
be purplish, or even black, if the respiration is interfered with. When
one of the large veins in the neck is wounded, the effects of
respiration produce a rise and fall in the stream which may resemble
arterial pulsation.

In _capillary_ haemorrhage, red blood escapes from numerous points on the
surface of the wound in a steady ooze. This form of bleeding is serious
in those who are the subjects of haemophilia.


INJURIES OF ARTERIES

The following description of the injuries of arteries refers to the
larger, named trunks. The injuries of smaller, unnamed vessels are
included in the consideration of wounds and contusions.

#Contusion.#--An artery may be contused by a blow or crush, or by the
oblique impact of a bullet. The bruising of the vessel wall, especially
if it is diseased, may result in the formation of a thrombus