ated in the
former group.

In _syringomyelia_, joint affections (gliomatous arthropathies) are more
frequent than in tabes, and they usually involve the upper extremity in
correspondence with the seat of the spinal lesion, which usually affects
the lower cervical and upper thoracic segments. Except that the joint
disease is seldom symmetrical, it closely resembles the arthropathy of
tabes. The completeness of the analgesia of the articular structures
and of the overlying soft parts is illustrated by the fact that in one
case the patient himself was in the habit of letting out the fluid from
his elbow with the aid of a pair of scissors, and that in another the
joint was painlessly excised without an anaesthetic.

[Illustration: FIG. 164.--Charcot's Disease of both Ankles: front view.
Man, aet. 32.]

The disease may become arrested or may go on to complete
disorganisation; suppuration may ensue from infection through a breach
of the surface, and in rare cases the joint has become the seat of
tuberculosis.

[Illustration: FIG. 165.--Charcot's Disease of both Ankles: back view.
Man, aet. 32.]

_Treatment_, in addition to that of the nerve lesion underlying the
arthropathy, consists in supporting and protecting the joint by means of
bandages, splints, and other apparatus. In the lower extremity, the use
of crutches is helpful in taking the strain off the affected limb. When
there is much distension of the joint, considerable relief follows upon
withdrawal of fluid. The best possible result being rigid ankylosis in a
good position, it may be advisable to bring this about artificially by
arthrodesis or resection. Operation is indicated when only one joint is
affected and when the cord lesion is such as will permit of the patient
using the limb. The wounds heal well, but the victims of tabes are
unfavourable subjects for operative interference, on account of their
liability to intercurrent complications. When the limb is quite useless,
amputation may be the best course.

_In cerebral lesions_ attended with hemiplegia, joint affections,
characterised by evanescent pain, redness, and swelling, are
occasionally met with. The secondary changes in joints which are the
seat of paralytic contracture are considered with the surgery of the
Extremities.

In cases of _hysteria_ and other _functional affections of the
nervous system_, an intermittent neuropathic hydrops has been
observed--especially in the knee. Without apparent cause, the joint
fills with fluid and its movements become restricted, and after from two
to eight days the swelling subsides and the joint returns to normal. A
remarkable feature of the condition is that the effusion into the joint
recurs at regular intervals, it may be over a period of years. Psychic
conditions have been known to induce attacks, and sometimes to abort
them or even to cause their disappearance. Hence it has been recommended
that treatment by suggestion should be employed along with tonic doses
of quinine and arsenic.


HYSTERICAL OR MIMETIC JOINT AFFECTIONS

Under this heading, Sir Benjamin Brodie, in 1822, described an affection
of joints, characterised by the prominence of subjective symptoms and
the absence of pathological changes. Although most frequently met with
in young women with an impressionable nervous system, and especially
among those in good social circumstances, it occurs occasionally in men.
The onset may be referred to injury or exposure to cold, or may be
associated with some disturbance of the emotions or of the generative
organs; or the condition may be an involuntary imitation of the symptoms
of organic joint disease presented by a relative or friend.

It is characteristic that the symptoms develop abruptly without
satisfactory cause, that they are exaggerated and wanting in harmony
with one another, and that they do not correspond with the features of
any of the known forms of organic disease. In some cases the only
complaint is of severe pain; more often this is associated with
excessive tenderness and with impairment of the functions of the joint.
On examination the joint presents a normal appearance, but the skin
over it is remarkably sensitive. A light touch is more likely to excite
pain than deep and firm pressure. Stiffness is a variable feature--in
some cases amounting to absolute rigidity, so that no ordinary force
will elicit movement. It is characteristic of this, as of other
neuroses, that the symptoms come and go without sufficient cause. When
the patient's attention is diverted, the pain and stiffness may
disappear. There is no actual swelling of the joint, although there may
be an appearance of this from wasting of the muscles above and below. If
the joint is kept rigid for long periods, secondary contracture may
occur--in the knee with flexion, in the hip with flexion and adduction.

The _diagnosis_ is often a matter of considerable difficulty, and the
condition is liable to be mistaken for such organic lesions as a
tuberculous or pyogenic focus in