tissue of the abdomen
every two, three, or four days. In the course of a fortnight or three
weeks improvement may begin. The clot which forms is liable to soften
and be absorbed, but a repetition of the injection has in several cases
established a permanent cure.

_Amputation of the limb_ is indicated in cases complicated by
suppuration, by secondary haemorrhage after excision or ligation, or by
gangrene. Amputation at the shoulder was performed by Fergusson in a
case of subclavian aneurysm, as a means of arresting the blood-flow
through the sac.


TRAUMATIC ANEURYSM

The essential feature of a traumatic aneurysm is that it is produced by
some form of injury which divides all the coats of the artery. The walls
of the injured vessel are presumably healthy, but they form no part of
the sac of the aneurysm. The sac consists of the condensed and thickened
tissues around the artery.

The injury to the artery may be a subcutaneous one such as a tear by a
fragment of bone: much more commonly it is a punctured wound from a stab
or from a bullet.

The aneurysm usually forms soon after the injury is inflicted; the blood
slowly escapes into the surrounding tissues, gradually displacing and
condensing them, until they form a sac enclosing the effused blood.

Less frequently a traumatic aneurysm forms some considerable time after
the injury, from gradual stretching of the fibrous cicatrix by which the
wound in the wall of the artery has been closed. The gradual stretching
of this cicatrix results in condensation of the surrounding structures
which form the sac, on the inner aspect of which laminated clot is
deposited.

A traumatic aneurysm is almost always sacculated, and, so long as it
remains circumscribed, has the same characters as a pathological
sacculated aneurysm, with the addition that there is a scar in the
overlying skin. A traumatic aneurysm is liable to become diffuse--a
change which, although attended with considerable risk of gangrene, has
sometimes been the means of bringing about a cure.

The treatment is governed by the same principles as apply to the
pathological varieties, but as the walls of the artery are not diseased,
operative measures dealing with the sac and the adjacent segment of the
affected artery are to be preferred.


ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURYSM

An abnormal communication between an artery and a vein constitutes an
arterio-venous aneurysm. Two varieties are recognised--one in which the
communication is direct--_aneurysmal varix_; the other in which the
vein communicates with the artery through the medium of a sac--_varicose
aneurysm_.

Either variety may result from pathological causes, but in the majority
of cases they are traumatic in origin, being due to such injuries as
stabs, punctured wounds, and gun-shot injuries which involve both artery
and vein. In former times the most common situation was at the bend of
the elbow, the brachial artery being accidentally punctured in
blood-letting from the median basilic vein. Arterio-venous aneurysm is a
frequent result of injuries by modern high-velocity bullets--for
example, in the neck or groin.

In _aneurysmal varix_ the higher blood pressure in the artery forces
arterial blood into the vein, which near the point of communication with
the artery tends to become dilated, and to form a thick-walled sac,
beyond which the vessel and its tributaries are distended and tortuous.
The clinical features resemble those associated with varicose veins, but
the entrance of arterial blood into the dilated veins causes them to
pulsate, and produces in them a vibratory thrill and a loud murmur. In
those at the groin, the distension of the veins may be so great that
they look like sinuses running through the muscles, a feature that must
be taken into account in any operation.

As the condition tends to remain stationary, the support of an elastic
bandage is all that is required; but when the condition progresses and
causes serious inconvenience, it may be necessary to cut down and expose
the communication between the artery and vein, and, after separating the
vessels, to close the opening in each by suture; this may be difficult
or impossible if the parts are matted from former suppuration. If it is
impossible thus to obliterate the communication, the artery should be
ligated above and below the point of communication; although the risk of
gangrene is considerable unless means are taken to develop the
collateral circulation beforehand (Makins).

_Varicose aneurysm_ usually develops in relation to a traumatic
aneurysm, the sac becoming adherent to an adjacent vein, and ultimately
opening into it. In this way a communication between the artery and the
vein is established, and the clinical features are those of a
combination of aneurysm and aneurysmal varix.

As there is little tendency to spontaneous cure, and as the aneurysm is
liable to increase in size and finally to rupture, operative treatment
is usually called for. This is carried out on the same lines as for