lint saturated
with a lotion made up of chloral hydrate, gr. v, glycerin [dram]j, water
[ounce]j, and covered with oil-silk. Strain and over-use of the joint
and sudden changes of temperature are to be avoided. The induction of
hyperaemia by means of massage, the elastic bandage, and hot-air baths is
often of service. Operative interference is indicated when the disease
is of a severe type, when it is mon-articular, and when the general
condition of the patient is otherwise favourable. Excision has been
practised with success in the hip, knee, elbow, and temporo-mandibular
joints. Limitation of movement and locking at the hip-joint when due to
new bone round the edge of the acetabulum may be greatly relieved by
removal of the bone--a procedure known as _cheilotomy_. Loose bodies and
hypertrophied fringes if causing symptoms may also be removed by
operation.

When stiffness and grating on movement are prominent features we have
found the injection of from half to one ounce of sterilised white
vaseline afford decided relief.

The patient should be nourished well, and there need be no restriction
in the diet such as is required in gouty patients, so long as the
digestion is not impaired. Benefit is also derived from the
administration of cod-liver oil, and of tonics, such as strychnin,
arsenic, and iron, and in some cases of iodide of potassium. Luff
recommends the administration over long periods of guaiacol carbonate,
in cachets beginning with doses of 5-10 grs. and increased to 15-20 grs.
thrice daily. A course of treatment at one of the reputed spas--Aix,
Bath, Buxton, Gastein, Harrogate, Strathpeffer, Wiesbaden, Wildbad--is
often beneficial.

In some cases benefit has followed the prolonged internal administration
of liquid paraffin.

On the assumption that the condition is the result of an
auto-intoxication from the intestinal tract, saline purges and
irrigation of the colon are indicated, and Arbuthnot Lane claims to have
brought about improvement by short-circuiting or by resecting the colon.

Residence in a warm and dry climate, with an open-air life, has been
known to arrest the disease when other measures have failed to give
relief.

The application of radium and the ingestion of radio-active waters have
also been recommended.

#Haemophilic# or #Bleeder's Joint#.--This is a rare but characteristic
affection met with chiefly in the knee-joint of boys who are the
subjects of haemophilia. After some trivial injury, or even without
apparent cause, a haemorrhage takes place into the joint. The joint is
tensely swollen, cannot be completely extended, and is so painful that
the patient is obliged to lie up. The temperature is often raised (101 o
to 102 o F.), especially if there are also haemorrhages elsewhere. The
blood in the joint is slowly re-absorbed, and by the end of a fortnight
or so, the symptoms completely disappear. As a rule these attacks are
repeated; the pain attending them diminishes, but the joint becomes the
seat of permanent changes: the synovial membrane is thickened,
abnormally vascular, and coloured brown from the deposit of blood
pigment; on its surface, and in parts of the articular cartilage, there
is a deposit of rust-coloured fibrin; there may be extensive adhesions,
and in some cases changes occur like those observed in arthritis
deformans with erosion and ulceration of the cartilage and a form of dry
caries of the articular surfaces, which may terminate in ankylosis.

As the swelling of the joint is associated with wasting of the muscles,
with stiffness, and with flexion, the condition closely resembles
tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane. From errors in diagnosis
such joints have been operated upon, with disastrous results due to
haemorrhage.

The treatment of a recent haemorrhage consists in securing absolute rest
and applying elastic compression. The introduction of blood-serum (10-15
c.c.) into a vein may assist in arresting the haemorrhage;
anti-diphtheritic serum is that most readily obtainable.

After an interval, measures should be adopted to promote the absorption
of blood and to prevent stiffness and flexion; these include massage,
movements, and extension with weight and pulley.


JOINT DISEASES ASSOCIATED WITH LESIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM:
NEURO-ARTHROPATHIES

_In Lesions of Peripheral Nerves._--In the hand, and more rarely in the
foot, when one or other of the main nerve-trunks has been divided or
compressed, the joints may become swollen and painful and afterwards
become stiff and deformed. Bony ankylosis has been observed.

_In Affections of the Spinal Medulla._--In myelitis, progressive
muscular atrophy, poliomyelitis, insular sclerosis, and in traumatic
lesions, joint affections are occasionally met with.

The occurrence of joint lesions in _locomotor ataxia_ (tabes dorsalis)
was first described by Charcot in 1868--hence the term "Charcot's
disease" applied to them. Although they usually develop in the ataxic
stage, one or more years after the initial 