llaries_ consists of a single layer of endothelial
cells.


HAEMORRHAGE

Various terms are employed in relation to haemorrhage, according to its
seat, its origin, the time at which it occurs, and other circumstances.

The term _external haemorrhage_ is employed when the blood escapes on the
surface; when the bleeding takes place into the tissues or into a cavity
it is spoken of as _internal_. The blood may infiltrate the connective
tissue, constituting an _extravasation_ of blood; or it may collect in a
space or cavity and form a _haematoma_.

The coughing up of blood from the lungs is known as _haemoptysis_;
vomiting of blood from the stomach, as _haematemesis_; the passage of
black-coloured stools due to the presence of blood altered by digestion,
as _melaena_; and the passage of bloody urine, as _haematuria_.

Haemorrhage is known as arterial, venous, or capillary, according to the
nature of the vessel from which it takes place.

In _arterial_ haemorrhage the blood is bright red in colour, and escapes
from the cardiac end of the divided vessel in pulsating jets
synchronously with the systole of the heart. In vascular parts--for
example the face--both ends of a divided artery bleed freely. The blood
flowing from an artery may be dark in colour if the respiration is
impeded. When the heart's action is weak and the blood tension low the
flow may appear to be continuous and not in jets. The blood from a
divided artery at the bottom of a deep wound, escapes on the surface in
a steady flow.

_Venous_ bleeding is not pulsatile, but occurs in a continuous stream,
which, although both ends of the vessel may bleed, is more copious from
the distal end. The blood is dark red under ordinary conditions, but may
be purplish, or even black, if the respiration is interfered with. When
one of the large veins in the neck is wounded, the effects of
respiration produce a rise and fall in the stream which may resemble
arterial pulsation.

In _capillary_ haemorrhage, red blood escapes from numerous points on the
surface of the wound in a steady ooze. This form of bleeding is serious
in those who are the subjects of haemophilia.


INJURIES OF ARTERIES

The following description of the injuries of arteries refers to the
larger, named trunks. The injuries of smaller, unnamed vessels are
included in the consideration of wounds and contusions.

#Contusion.#--An artery may be contused by a blow or crush, or by the
oblique impact of a bullet. The bruising of the vessel wall, especially
if it is diseased, may result in the formation of a thrombus which
occludes the lumen temporarily or even permanently, and in rare cases
may lead to gangrene of the limb beyond.

#Subcutaneous Rupture.#--An artery may be ruptured subcutaneously by a
blow or crush, or by a displaced fragment of bone. This injury has been
produced also during attempts to reduce dislocations, especially those
of old standing at the shoulder. It is most liable to occur when the
vessels are diseased. The rupture may be incomplete or complete.

_Incomplete Subcutaneous Rupture._--In the majority of cases the rupture
is incomplete--the inner and middle coats being torn, while the outer
remains intact. The middle coat contracts and retracts, and the
internal, because of its elasticity, curls up in the interior of the
vessel, forming a valvular obstruction to the blood-flow. In most cases
this results in the formation of a thrombus which occludes the vessel.
In some cases the blood-pressure gradually distends the injured segment
of the vessel wall and leads to the formation of an aneurysm.

The pulsation in the vessels beyond the seat of rupture is arrested--for
a time at least--owing to the occlusion of the vessel, and the limb
becomes cold and powerless. The pulsation seldom returns within five or
six weeks of the injury, if indeed it is not permanently arrested, but,
as a rule, a collateral circulation is rapidly established, sufficient
to nourish the parts beyond. If the pulsation returns within a week of
the injury, the presumption is that the occlusion was due to pressure
from without--for example, by haemorrhage into the sheath or the pressure
of a fragment of bone.

_Complete Subcutaneous Rupture._--When the rupture is complete, all the
coats of the vessel are torn and the blood escapes into the surrounding
tissues. If the original injury is attended with much shock, the
bleeding may not take place until the period of reaction. Rupture of the
popliteal artery in association with fracture of the femur, or of the
axillary or brachial artery with fracture of the humerus or dislocation
of the shoulder, are familiar examples of this injury.

Like incomplete rupture, this lesion is accompanied by loss of pulsation
and power, and by coldness of the limb beyond; a tense and excessively
painful swelling rapidly appears in the region of the injury, and, where
the cellular tissue is loose, may attain a considerable size. The
pressure of the effused blood occludes the veins and lea