is only necessary here to consider the effects of modern small-bore
rifle or machine-gun bullets.

The trajectory is practically flat up to 675 yards. In destructive
effect there is not much difference between the various high velocity
bullets used in different armies; they will kill up to a distance of two
miles. The hard covering is employed to enable the bullet to take the
grooves in the rifle, and to prevent it stripping as it passes through
the barrel. It also increases the penetrating power of the missile, but
diminishes its "stopping" power, unless a vital part or a long bone is
struck. By removing the covering from the point of the bullet, as is
done in the Dum-Dum bullet, or by splitting the end, the bullet is made
to expand or "mushroom" when it strikes the body, and its stopping power
is thereby greatly increased, the resulting wound being much more
severe. These "soft-nosed" expanding bullets are to be distinguished
from "explosive" bullets which contain substances which detonate on
impact. High velocity bullets are unlikely to lodge in the body unless
spent, or pulled up by a sandbag, or metal buckle on a belt, or a book
in the pocket, or the core and the case separating--"stripping" of the
bullet. Spent shot may merely cause bruising of the surface, or they may
pass through the skin and lodge in the subcutaneous tissue, or may even
damage some deeper structure such as a nerve trunk.

A blank cartridge fired at close range may cause a severe wound, and, if
charged with black powder, may leave a permanent bluish-black
pigmentation of the skin.

The lesions of individual tissues--bones, nerves, blood vessels--are
considered with these.

#Treatment of Gunshot Wounds under War Conditions.#--It is only
necessary to indicate briefly the method of dealing with gunshot wounds
in warfare as practised in the European War.

1. _On the Field._--Haemorrhage is arrested in the limbs by an improvised
tourniquet; in the head by a pad and bandage; in the thorax or abdomen
by packing if necessary, but this should be avoided if possible, as it
favours septic infection. If a limb is all but detached it should be
completely severed. A full dose of morphin is given hypodermically. The
ampoule of iodine carried by the wounded man is broken, and its contents
are poured over and around the wound, after which the field dressing is
applied. In extensive wounds, the "shell-dressing" carried by the
stretcher bearers is preferred. All bandages are applied loosely to
allow for subsequent swelling. The fragments of fractured bones are
immobilised by some form of emergency splint.

2. _At the Advanced Dressing Station_, after the patient has had a
liberal allowance of warm fluid nourishment, such as soup or tea, a full
dose of anti-tetanic serum is injected. The tourniquet is removed and
the wound inspected. Urgent amputations are performed. Moribund patients
are detained lest they die _en route_.

3. _In the Field Ambulance or Casualty Clearing Station_ further
measures are employed for the relief of shock, and urgent operations are
performed, such as amputation for gangrene, tracheotomy for dyspnoea, or
laparotomy for perforated or lacerated intestine. In the majority of
cases the main object is to guard against infection; the skin is
disinfected over a wide area and surrounded with towels; damaged tissue,
especially muscle, is removed with the knife or scissors, and foreign
bodies are extracted. Torn blood vessels, and, if possible, nerves and
tendons are repaired. The wound is then partly closed, provision being
made for free drainage, or some special method of irrigation, such as
that of Carrel, is adopted. Sometimes the wound is treated with bismuth,
iodoform, and paraffin paste (B.I.P.P.) and sutured.

4. _In the Base Hospital or Hospital Ship_ various measures may be
called for according to the progress of the wound and the condition of
the patient.

#Shell Wounds and Wounds produced by Explosions.#--It is convenient to
consider together the effects of the bursting of shells fired from heavy
ordnance and those resulting in the course of blasting operations from
the discharge of dynamite or other explosives, or from the bursting of
steam boilers or pipes, the breaking of machinery, and similar accidents
met with in civil practice.

Wounds inflicted by shell fragments and shrapnel bullets tend to be
extensive in area, and show great contusion, laceration, and destruction
of the tissues. The missiles frequently lodge and carry portions of the
clothing and, it may be, articles from the man's pocket, with them.
Shell wounds are attended with a considerable degree of shock. On
account of the wide area of contusion which surrounds the actual wound
produced by shell fragments, amputation, when called for, should be
performed some distance above the torn tissues, as there is considerable
risk of sloughing of the flaps.

Wounds produced by dynamite explosions and the bursting of boilers have
the same general characters as shell 