which had been found in the
     dead man's pocket. "It is sure to be produced at the inquest. May I
     ask you to throw any light upon it that you can?"

     "I see no reason for mystery," she answered. "We were engaged to be
     married, and we only kept it secret because Fitzroy's uncle, who is
     very old and said to be dying, might have disinherited him if he had
     married against his wish. There was no other reason."

     "You could have told us," growled Mr. Bellamy.

     "So I would, father, if you had ever shown sympathy."

     "I object to my girl picking up with men outside her own station."

     "It was your prejudice against him which prevented us from telling
     you. As to this appointment"--she fumbled in her dress and produced a
     crumpled note--"it was in answer to this."

     Dearest [ran the message]:
     The old place on the beach just after sunset on Tuesday. It is the
     only time I can get away.
     F. M.

     "Tuesday was to-day, and I had meant to meet him to-night."

     I turned over the paper. "This never came by post. How did you get
     it?"

     "I would rather not answer that question. It has really nothing to do
     with the matter which you are investigating. But anything which bears
     upon that I will most freely answer."

     She was as good as her word, but there was nothing which was helpful
     in our investigation. She had no reason to think that her fiance had
     any hidden enemy, but she admitted that she had had several warm
     admirers.

     "May I ask if Mr. Ian Murdoch was one of them?"

     She blushed and seemed confused.

     "There was a time when I thought he was. But that was all changed
     when he understood the relations between Fitzroy and myself."

     Again the shadow round this strange man seemed to me to be taking
     more definite shape. His record must be examined. His rooms must be
     privately searched. Stackhurst was a willing collaborator, for in his
     mind also suspicions were forming. We returned from our visit to The
     Haven with the hope that one free end of this tangled skein was
     already in our hands.

     A week passed. The inquest had thrown no light upon the matter and
     had been adjourned for further evidence. Stackhurst had made discreet
     inquiry about his subordinate, and there had been a superficial
     search of his room, but without result. Personally, I had gone over
     the whole ground again, both physically and mentally, but with no new
     conclusions. In all my chronicles the reader will find no case which
     brought me so completely to the limit of my powers. Even my
     imagination could conceive no solution to the mystery. And then there
     came the incident of the dog.

     It was my old housekeeper who heard of it first by that strange
     wireless by which such people collect the news of the countryside.

     "Sad story this, sir, about Mr. McPherson's dog," said she one
     evening.

     I do not encourage such conversations, but the words arrested my
     attention.

     "What of Mr. McPherson's dog?"

     "Dead, sir. Died of grief for its master."

     "Who told you this?"

     "Why, sir, everyone is talking of it. It took on terrible, and has
     eaten nothing for a week. Then to-day two of the young gentlemen from
     The Gables found it dead--down on the beach, sir, at the very place
     where its master met his end."

     "At the very place." The words stood out clear in my memory. Some dim
     perception that the matter was vital rose in my mind. That the dog
     should die was after the beautiful, faithful nature of dogs. But "in
     the very place"! Why should this lonely beach be fatal to it? Was it
     possible that it also had been sacrificed to some revengeful feud?
     Was it possible--? Yes, the perception was dim, but already something
     was building up in my mind. In a few minutes I was on my way to The
     Gables, where I found Stackhurst in his study. At my request he sent
     for Sudbury and Blount, the two students who had found the dog.

     "Yes, it lay on the very edge of the pool," said one of them. "It
     must have followed the trail of its dead master."

     I saw the faithful little creature, an Airedale terrier, laid out
     upon the mat in the hall. The body was stiff and rigid, the eyes
     projecting, and the limbs contorted. There was agony in every line of
     it.

     From The Gables I walked down to the bathing-pool. The sun had sunk
     and the shadow of the great cliff lay black across the water, which
     glimmered dully like a sheet of lead. The place was deserted and
     there was no sign of life save for two sea-birds circling and
     screaming overhead. In the fading light I could dimly make out the
     little dog's spoor upon the sand round the very rock on which his
     master's towel had been laid. For a long time I stood in deep
     meditation while the shadows 