culiar. He was a
     man of habits, narrow and concentrated habits, and I had become one
     of them. As an institution I was like the violin, the shag tobacco,
     the old black pipe, the index books, and others perhaps less
     excusable. When it was a case of active work and a comrade was needed
     upon whose nerve he could place some reliance, my role was obvious.
     But apart from this I had uses. I was a whetstone for his mind. I
     stimulated him. He liked to think aloud in my presence. His remarks
     could hardly be said to be made to me--many of them would have been
     as appropriately addressed to his bedstead--but none the less, having
     formed the habit, it had become in some way helpful that I should
     register and interject. If I irritated him by a certain methodical
     slowness in my mentality, that irritation served only to make his own
     flame-like intuitions and impressions flash up the more vividly and
     swiftly. Such was my humble role in our alliance.

     When I arrived at Baker Street I found him huddled up in his armchair
     with updrawn knees, his pipe in his mouth and his brow furrowed with
     thought. It was clear that he was in the throes of some vexatious
     problem. With a wave of his hand he indicated my old armchair, but
     otherwise for half an hour he gave no sign that he was aware of my
     presence. Then with a start he seemed to come from his reverie, and
     with his usual whimsical smile he greeted me back to what had once
     been my home.

     "You will excuse a certain abstraction of mind, my dear Watson," said
     he. "Some curious facts have been submitted to me within the last
     twenty-four hours, and they in turn have given rise to some
     speculations of a more general character. I have serious thoughts of
     writing a small monograph upon the uses of dogs in the work of the
     detective."

     "But surely, Holmes, this has been explored," said I.
     "Bloodhounds--sleuth-hounds--"

     "No, no, Watson, that side of the matter is, of course, obvious. But
     there is another which is far more subtle. You may recollect that in
     the case which you, in your sensational way, coupled with the Copper
     Beeches, I was able, by watching the mind of the child, to form a
     deduction as to the criminal habits of the very smug and respectable
     father."

     "Yes, I remember it well."

     "My line of thoughts about dogs is analogous. A dog reflects the
     family life. Whoever saw a frisky dog in a gloomy family, or a sad
     dog in a happy one? Snarling people have snarling dogs, dangerous
     people have dangerous ones. And their passing moods may reflect the
     passing moods of others."

     I shook my head. "Surely, Holmes, this is a little far-fetched," said
     I.

     He had refilled his pipe and resumed his seat, taking no notice of my
     comment.

     "The practical application of what I have said is very close to the
     problem which I am investigating. It is a tangled skein, you
     understand, and I am looking for a loose end. One possible loose end
     lies in the question: Why does Professor Presbury's wolfhound, Roy,
     endeavour to bite him?"

     I sank back in my chair in some disappointment. Was it for so trivial
     a question as this that I had been summoned from my work? Holmes
     glanced across at me.

     "The same old Watson!" said he. "You never learn that the gravest
     issues may depend upon the smallest things. But is it not on the face
     of it strange that a staid, elderly philosopher--you've heard of
     Presbury, of course, the famous Camford physiologist?--that such a
     man, whose friend has been his devoted wolfhound, should now have
     been twice attacked by his own dog? What do you make of it?"

     "The dog is ill."

     "Well, that has to be considered. But he attacks no one else, nor
     does he apparently molest his master, save on very special occasions.
     Curious, Watson--very curious. But young Mr. Bennett is before his
     time if that is his ring. I had hoped to have a longer chat with you
     before he came."

     There was a quick step on the stairs, a sharp tap at the door, and a
     moment later the new client presented himself. He was a tall,
     handsome youth about thirty, well dressed and elegant, but with
     something in his bearing which suggested the shyness of the student
     rather than the self-possession of the man of the world. He shook
     hands with Holmes, and then looked with some surprise at me.

     "This matter is very delicate, Mr. Holmes," he said. "Consider the
     relation in which I stand to Professor Presbury both privately and
     publicly. I really can hardly justify myself if I speak before any
     third person."

     "Have no fear, Mr. Bennett. Dr. Watson is the very soul of
     discretion, and I can assure you that this is a matter in which I am
     very likely to need an