 chart at the Haymarket
     Theatre--another of Dr. Watson's bull's-eyes--and ascertained that
     neither B thirty nor thirty-two of the upper circle had been occupied
     that night. Therefore, Amberley had not been to the theatre, and his
     alibi fell to the ground. He made a bad slip when he allowed my
     astute friend to notice the number of the seat taken for his wife.
     The question now arose how I might be able to examine the house. I
     sent an agent to the most impossible village I could think of, and
     summoned my man to it at such an hour that he could not possibly get
     back. To prevent any miscarriage, Dr. Watson accompanied him. The
     good vicar's name I took, of course, out of my Crockford. Do I make
     it all clear to you?"

     "It is masterly," said the inspector in an awed voice.

     "There being no fear of interruption I proceeded to burgle the house.
     Burglary has always been an alternative profession had I cared to
     adopt it, and I have little doubt that I should have come to the
     front. Observe what I found. You see the gas-pipe along the skirting
     here. Very good. It rises in the angle of the wall, and there is a
     tap here in the corner. The pipe runs out into the strong-room, as
     you can see, and ends in that plaster rose in the centre of the
     ceiling, where it is concealed by the ornamentation. That end is wide
     open. At any moment by turning the outside tap the room could be
     flooded with gas. With door and shutter closed and the tap full on I
     would not give two minutes of conscious sensation to anyone shut up
     in that little chamber. By what devilish device he decoyed them there
     I do not know, but once inside the door they were at his mercy."

     The inspector examined the pipe with interest. "One of our officers
     mentioned the smell of gas," said he, "but of course the window and
     door were open then, and the paint--or some of it--was already about.
     He had begun the work of painting the day before, according to his
     story. But what next, Mr. Holmes?"

     "Well, then came an incident which was rather unexpected to myself. I
     was slipping through the pantry window in the early dawn when I felt
     a hand inside my collar, and a voice said: 'Now, you rascal, what are
     you doing in there?' When I could twist my head round I looked into
     the tinted spectacles of my friend and rival, Mr. Barker. It was a
     curious foregathering and set us both smiling. It seems that he had
     been engaged by Dr. Ray Ernest's family to make some investigations
     and had come to the same conclusion as to foul play. He had watched
     the house for some days and had spotted Dr. Watson as one of the
     obviously suspicious characters who had called there. He could hardly
     arrest Watson, but when he saw a man actually climbing out of the
     pantry window there came a limit to his restraint. Of course, I told
     him how matters stood and we continued the case together."

     "Why him? Why not us?"

     "Because it was in my mind to put that little test which answered so
     admirably. I fear you would not have gone so far."

     The inspector smiled.

     "Well, maybe not. I understand that I have your word, Mr. Holmes,
     that you step right out of the case now and that you turn all your
     results over to us."

     "Certainly, that is always my custom."

     "Well, in the name of the force I thank you. It seems a clear case,
     as you put it, and there can't be much difficulty over the bodies."

     "I'll show you a grim little bit of evidence," said Holmes, "and I am
     sure Amberley himself never observed it. You'll get results,
     Inspector, by always putting yourself in the other fellow's place,
     and thinking what you would do yourself. It takes some imagination,
     but it pays. Now, we will suppose that you were shut up in this
     little room, had not two minutes to live, but wanted to get even with
     the fiend who was probably mocking at you from the other side of the
     door. What would you do?"

     "Write a message."

     "Exactly. You would like to tell people how you died. No use writing
     on paper. That would be seen. If you wrote on the wall someone might
     rest upon it. Now, look here! Just above the skirting is scribbled
     with a purple indelible pencil: 'We we--' That's all."

     "What do you make of that?"

     "Well, it's only a foot above the ground. The poor devil was on the
     floor dying when he wrote it. He lost his senses before he could
     finish."

     "He was writing, 'We were murdered.'"

     "That's how I read it. If you find an indelible pencil on the body--"

     "We'll look out for it, you may be sure. But those securities?
     Clearly there was no robbery at all. And yet he did possess those
     bonds. We verified that."

     "You may be sure he has them hidden in a safe place. When the who