sage?" she asked,
     holding up the slip of paper.

     "I need not explain, madame. I have too much respect for your
     intelligence to do so--though I confess that intelligence has been
     surprisingly at fault of late."

     "How so, sir?"

     "By supposing that your hired bullies could frighten me from my work.
     Surely no man would take up my profession if it were not that danger
     attracts him. It was you, then, who forced me to examine the case of
     young Maberley."

     "I have no idea what you are talking about. What have I to do with
     hired bullies?"

     Holmes turned away wearily.

     "Yes, I have underrated your intelligence. Well, good-afternoon!"

     "Stop! Where are you going?"

     "To Scotland Yard."

     We had not got halfway to the door before she had overtaken us and
     was holding his arm. She had turned in a moment from steel to velvet.

     "Come and sit down, gentlemen. Let us talk this matter over. I feel
     that I may be frank with you, Mr. Holmes. You have the feelings of a
     gentleman. How quick a woman's instinct is to find it out. I will
     treat you as a friend."

     "I cannot promise to reciprocate, madame. I am not the law, but I
     represent justice so far as my feeble powers go. I am ready to
     listen, and then I will tell you how I will act."

     "No doubt it was foolish of me to threaten a brave man like
     yourself."

     "What was really foolish, madame, is that you have placed yourself in
     the power of a band of rascals who may blackmail or give you away."

     "No, no! I am not so simple. Since I have promised to be frank, I may
     say that no one, save Barney Stockdale and Susan, his wife, have the
     least idea who their employer is. As to them, well, it is not the
     first--" She smiled and nodded with a charming coquettish intimacy.

     "I see. You've tested them before."

     "They are good hounds who run silent."

     "Such hounds have a way sooner or later of biting the hand that feeds
     them. They will be arrested for this burglary. The police are already
     after them."

     "They will take what comes to them. That is what they are paid for. I
     shall not appear in the matter."

     "Unless I bring you into it."

     "No, no, you would not. You are a gentleman. It is a woman's secret."

     "In the first place, you must give back this manuscript."

     She broke into a ripple of laughter and walked to the fireplace.
     There was a calcined mass which she broke up with the poker. "Shall I
     give this back?" she asked. So roguish and exquisite did she look as
     she stood before us with a challenging smile that I felt of all
     Holmes's criminals this was the one whom he would find it hardest to
     face. However, he was immune from sentiment.

     "That seals your fate," he said coldly. "You are very prompt in your
     actions, madame, but you have overdone it on this occasion."

     She threw the poker down with a clatter.

     "How hard you are!" she cried. "May I tell you the whole story?"

     "I fancy I could tell it to you."

     "But you must look at it with my eyes, Mr. Holmes. You must realize
     it from the point of view of a woman who sees all her life's ambition
     about to be ruined at the last moment. Is such a woman to be blamed
     if she protects herself?"

     "The original sin was yours."

     "Yes, yes! I admit it. He was a dear boy, Douglas, but it so chanced
     that he could not fit into my plans. He wanted marriage--marriage,
     Mr. Holmes--with a penniless commoner. Nothing less would serve him.
     Then he became pertinacious. Because I had given he seemed to think
     that I still must give, and to him only. It was intolerable. At last
     I had to make him realize it."

     "By hiring ruffians to beat him under your own window."

     "You do indeed seem to know everything. Well, it is true. Barney and
     the boys drove him away, and were, I admit, a little rough in doing
     so. But what did he do then? Could I have believed that a gentleman
     would do such an act? He wrote a book in which he described his own
     story. I, of course, was the wolf; he the lamb. It was all there,
     under different names, of course; but who in all London would have
     failed to recognize it? What do you say to that, Mr. Holmes?"

     "Well, he was within his rights."

     "It was as if the air of Italy had got into his blood and brought
     with it the old cruel Italian spirit. He wrote to me and sent me a
     copy of his book that I might have the torture of anticipation. There
     were two copies, he said--one for me, one for his publisher."

     "How did you know the publisher's had not reached him?"

     "I knew who his publisher was. It is not his only novel, you know. I
     found out that he had not heard from Italy. Then came Douglas's
     sudden death. So long as that other manuscript was in the world there
  