derstand that
     before we arrive."

     "Lord bless you, Mr. Holmes," said our visitor, "she is that anxious
     to see you that you might bring the whole parish at your heels!"

     "Then we shall come early in the afternoon. Let us see that we have
     our facts correct before we start. If we go over them it will help
     Dr. Watson to understand the situation. You say that Mrs. Ronder has
     been your lodger for seven years and that you have only once seen her
     face."

     "And I wish to God I had not!" said Mrs. Merrilow.

     "It was, I understand, terribly mutilated."

     "Well, Mr. Holmes, you would hardly say it was a face at all. That's
     how it looked. Our milkman got a glimpse of her once peeping out of
     the upper window, and he dropped his tin and the milk all over the
     front garden. That is the kind of face it is. When I saw her--I
     happened on her unawares--she covered up quick, and then she said,
     'Now, Mrs. Merrilow, you know at last why it is that I never raise my
     veil.'"

     "Do you know anything about her history?"

     "Nothing at all."

     "Did she give references when she came?"

     "No, sir, but she gave hard cash, and plenty of it. A quarter's rent
     right down on the table in advance and no arguing about terms. In
     these times a poor woman like me can't afford to turn down a chance
     like that."

     "Did she give any reason for choosing your house?"

     "Mine stands well back from the road and is more private than most.
     Then, again, I only take the one, and I have no family of my own. I
     reckon she had tried others and found that mine suited her best. It's
     privacy she is after, and she is ready to pay for it."

     "You say that she never showed her face from first to last save on
     the one accidental occasion. Well, it is a very remarkable story,
     most remarkable, and I don't wonder that you want it examined."

     "I don't, Mr. Holmes. I am quite satisfied so long as I get my rent.
     You could not have a quieter lodger, or one who gives less trouble."

     "Then what has brought matters to a head?"

     "Her health, Mr. Holmes. She seems to be wasting away. And there's
     something terrible on her mind. 'Murder!' she cries. 'Murder!' And
     once I heard her: 'You cruel beast! You monster!' she cried. It was
     in the night, and it fair rang through the house and sent the shivers
     through me. So I went to her in the morning. 'Mrs. Ronder,' I says,
     'if you have anything that is troubling your soul, there's the
     clergy,' I says, 'and there's the police. Between them you should get
     some help.' 'For God's sake, not the police!' says she, 'and the
     clergy can't change what is past. And yet,' she says, 'it would ease
     my mind if someone knew the truth before I died.' 'Well,' says I, 'if
     you won't have the regulars, there is this detective man what we read
     about'--beggin' your pardon, Mr. Holmes. And she, she fair jumped at
     it. 'That's the man,' says she. 'I wonder I never thought of it
     before. Bring him here, Mrs. Merrilow, and if he won't come, tell him
     I am the wife of Ronder's wild beast show. Say that, and give him the
     name Abbas Parva. Here it is as she wrote it, Abbas Parva. 'That will
     bring him if he's the man I think he is.'"

     "And it will, too," remarked Holmes. "Very good, Mrs. Merrilow. I
     should like to have a little chat with Dr. Watson. That will carry us
     till lunch-time. About three o'clock you may expect to see us at your
     house in Brixton."

     Our visitor had no sooner waddled out of the room--no other verb can
     describe Mrs. Merrilow's method of progression--than Sherlock Holmes
     threw himself with fierce energy upon the pile of commonplace books
     in the corner. For a few minutes there was a constant swish of the
     leaves, and then with a grunt of satisfaction he came upon what he
     sought. So excited was he that he did not rise, but sat upon the
     floor like some strange Buddha, with crossed legs, the huge books all
     round him, and one open upon his knees.

     "The case worried me at the time, Watson. Here are my marginal notes
     to prove it. I confess that I could make nothing of it. And yet I was
     convinced that the coroner was wrong. Have you no recollection of the
     Abbas Parva tragedy?"

     "None, Holmes."

     "And yet you were with me then. But certainly my own impression was
     very superficial. For there was nothing to go by, and none of the
     parties had engaged my services. Perhaps you would care to read the
     papers?"

     "Could you not give me the points?"

     "That is very easily done. It will probably come back to your memory
     as I talk. Ronder, of course, was a household word. He was the rival
     of Wombwell, and of Sanger, one of the greatest showmen of his day.
     There is evidence, however, that he took to drink, an