   was no safety for me. Of course, it must be among his effects, and
     these would be returned to his mother. I set the gang at work. One of
     them got into the house as servant. I wanted to do the thing
     honestly. I really and truly did. I was ready to buy the house and
     everything in it. I offered any price she cared to ask. I only tried
     the other way when everything else had failed. Now, Mr. Holmes,
     granting that I was too hard on Douglas--and, God knows, I am sorry
     for it!--what else could I do with my whole future at stake?"

     Sherlock Holmes shrugged his shoulders.

     "Well, well," said he, "I suppose I shall have to compound a felony
     as usual. How much does it cost to go round the world in first-class
     style?"

     The lady stared in amazement.

     "Could it be done on five thousand pounds?"

     "Well, I should think so, indeed!"

     "Very good. I think you will sign me a check for that, and I will see
     that it comes to Mrs. Maberley. You owe her a little change of air.
     Meantime, lady"--he wagged a cautionary forefinger--"have a care!
     Have a care! You can't play with edged tools forever without cutting
     those dainty hands."






                       THE ADVENTURE OF THE SUSSEX VAMPIRE

     Holmes had read carefully a note which the last post had brought him.
      Then, with the dry chuckle which was his nearest approach to a
     laugh, he tossed it over to me.

     "For a mixture of the modern and the mediaeval, of the practical and
     of the wildly fanciful, I think this is surely the limit," said he.
     "What do you make of it, Watson?"

     I read as follows:

     46, Old Jewry,
     Nov. 19th.
                                   Re Vampires
     Sir:
     Our client, Mr. Robert Ferguson, of Ferguson and Muirhead, tea
     brokers, of Mincing Lane, has made some inquiry from us in a
     communication of even date concerning vampires. As our firm
     specializes entirely upon the assessment of machinery the matter
     hardly comes within our purview, and we have therefore recommended
     Mr. Ferguson to call upon you and lay the matter before you. We have
     not forgotten your successful action in the case of Matilda Briggs.
     We are, sir,
     Faithfully yours,
     Morrison, Morrison, and Dodd.
     per E. J. C.

     "Matilda Briggs was not the name of a young woman, Watson," said
     Holmes in a reminiscent voice. "It was a ship which is associated
     with the giant rat of Sumatra, a story for which the world is not yet
     prepared. But what do we know about vampires? Does it come within our
     purview either? Anything is better than stagnation, but really we
     seem to have been switched on to a Grimms' fairy tale. Make a long
     arm, Watson, and see what V has to say."

     I leaned back and took down the great index volume to which he
     referred. Holmes balanced it on his knee, and his eyes moved slowly
     and lovingly over the record of old cases, mixed with the accumulated
     information of a lifetime.

     "Voyage of the Gloria Scott," he read.  "That was a bad business. I
     have some recollection that you made a record of it, Watson, though I
     was unable to congratulate you upon the result. Victor Lynch, the
     forger.  Venomous lizard or gila. Remarkable case, that! Vittoria,
     the circus belle. Vanderbilt and the Yeggman. Vipers. Vigor, the
     Hammersmith wonder. Hullo! Hullo! Good old index. You can't beat it.
     Listen to this, Watson. Vampirism in Hungary. And again, Vampires in
     Transylvania." He turned over the pages with eagerness, but after a
     short intent perusal he threw down the great book with a snarl of
     disappointment.

     "Rubbish, Watson, rubbish! What have we to do with walking corpses
     who can only be held in their grave by stakes driven through their
     hearts?  It's pure lunacy."

     "But surely," said I, "the vampire was not necessarily a dead man? A
     living person might have the habit. I have read, for example, of the
     old sucking the blood of the young in order to retain their youth."

     "You are right, Watson. It mentions the legend in one of these
     references. But are we to give serious attention to such things? This
     agency stands flat-footed upon the ground, and there it must remain.
     The world is big enough for us. No ghosts need apply. I fear that we
     cannot take Mr. Robert Ferguson very seriously. Possibly this note
     may be from him and may throw some light upon what is worrying him."

     He took up a second letter which had lain unnoticed upon the table
     while he had been absorbed with the first. This he began to read with
     a smile of amusement upon his face which gradually faded away into an
     expression of intense interest and concentration. When he had
     finished he sat for some little time lost in thought with the letter
     dangling from his fingers. Finall