 that he had found what he expected.

     "Was there ever a more exact demonstration?" he cried. "See, Watson,
     your revolver has solved the problem!" As he spoke he pointed to a
     second chip of the exact size and shape of the first which had
     appeared on the under edge of the stone balustrade.

     "We'll stay at the inn to-night," he continued as he rose and faced
     the astonished sergeant. "You will, of course, get a grappling-hook
     and you will easily restore my friend's revolver. You will also find
     beside it the revolver, string and weight with which this vindictive
     woman attempted to disguise her own crime and to fasten a charge of
     murder upon an innocent victim. You can let Mr. Gibson know that I
     will see him in the morning, when steps can be taken for Miss
     Dunbar's vindication."

     Late that evening, as we sat together smoking our pipes in the
     village inn, Holmes gave me a brief review of what had passed.

     "I fear, Watson," said he, "that you will not improve any reputation
     which I may have acquired by adding the case of the Thor Bridge
     mystery to your annals. I have been sluggish in mind and wanting in
     that mixture of imagination and reality which is the basis of my art.
     I confess that the chip in the stonework was a sufficient clue to
     suggest the true solution, and that I blame myself for not having
     attained it sooner.

     "It must be admitted that the workings of this unhappy woman's mind
     were deep and subtle, so that it was no very simple matter to unravel
     her plot. I do not think that in our adventures we have ever come
     across a stranger example of what perverted love can bring about.
     Whether Miss Dunbar was her rival in a physical or in a merely mental
     sense seems to have been equally unforgivable in her eyes. No doubt
     she blamed this innocent lady for all those harsh dealings and unkind
     words with which her husband tried to repel her too demonstrative
     affection. Her first resolution was to end her own life. Her second
     was to do it in such a way as to involve her victim in a fate which
     was worse far than any sudden death could be.

     "We can follow the various steps quite clearly, and they show a
     remarkable subtlety of mind. A note was extracted very cleverly from
     Miss Dunbar which would make it appear that she had chosen the scene
     of the crime. In her anxiety that it should be discovered she
     somewhat overdid it by holding it in her hand to the last. This alone
     should have excited my suspicions earlier than it did.

     "Then she took one of her husband's revolvers--there was, as you saw,
     an arsenal in the house--and kept it for her own use. A similar one
     she concealed that morning in Miss Dunbar's wardrobe after
     discharging one barrel, which she could easily do in the woods
     without attracting attention. She then went down to the bridge where
     she had contrived this exceedingly ingenious method for getting rid
     of her weapon. When Miss Dunbar appeared she used her last breath in
     pouring out her hatred, and then, when she was out of hearing,
     carried out her terrible purpose. Every link is now in its place and
     the chain is complete. The papers may ask why the mere was not
     dragged in the first instance, but it is easy to be wise after the
     event, and in any case the expanse of a reed-filled lake is no easy
     matter to drag unless you have a clear perception of what you are
     looking for and where. Well, Watson, we have helped a remarkable
     woman, and also a formidable man. Should they in the future join
     their forces, as seems not unlikely, the financial world may find
     that Mr. Neil Gibson has learned something in that schoolroom of
     sorrow where our earthly lessons are taught."






                        THE ADVENTURE OF THE CREEPING MAN

     Mr. Sherlock Holmes was always of opinion that I should publish the
     singular facts connected with Professor Presbury, if only to dispel
     once for all the ugly rumours which some twenty years ago agitated
     the university and were echoed in the learned societies of London.
     There were, however, certain obstacles in the way, and the true
     history of this curious case remained entombed in the tin box which
     contains so many records of my friend's adventures. Now we have at
     last obtained permission to ventilate the facts which formed one of
     the very last cases handled by Holmes before his retirement from
     practice. Even now a certain reticence and discretion have to be
     observed in laying the matter before the public.

     It was one Sunday evening early in September of the year 1903 that I
     received one of Holmes's laconic messages:

     Come at once if convenient--if inconvenient come all the same.
     S. H.

     The relations between us in those latter days were pe