ation.
     He should have been a buck in the days of the Regency--a boxer, an
     athlete, a plunger on the turf, a lover of fair ladies, and, by all
     account, so far down Queer Street that he may never find his way back
     again."

     "Capital, Watson! A thumb-nail sketch. I seem to know the man. Now,
     can you give me some idea of Shoscombe Old Place?"

     "Only that it is in the centre of Shoscombe Park, and that the famous
     Shoscombe stud and training quarters are to be found there."

     "And the head trainer," said Holmes, "is John Mason. You need not
     look surprised at my knowledge, Watson, for this is a letter from him
     which I am unfolding. But let us have some more about Shoscombe. I
     seem to have struck a rich vein."

     "There are the Shoscombe spaniels," said I. "You hear of them at
     every dog show. The most exclusive breed in England. They are the
     special pride of the lady of Shoscombe Old Place."

     "Sir Robert Norberton's wife, I presume!"

     "Sir Robert has never married. Just as well, I think, considering his
     prospects. He lives with his widowed sister, Lady Beatrice Falder."

     "You mean that she lives with him?"

     "No, no. The place belonged to her late husband, Sir James. Norberton
     has no claim on it at all. It is only a life interest and reverts to
     her husband's brother. Meantime, she draws the rents every year."

     "And brother Robert, I suppose, spends the said rents?"

     "That is about the size of it. He is a devil of a fellow and must
     lead her a most uneasy life. Yet I have heard that she is devoted to
     him. But what is amiss at Shoscombe?"

     "Ah, that is just what I want to know. And here, I expect, is the man
     who can tell us."

     The door had opened and the page had shown in a tall, clean-shaven
     man with the firm, austere expression which is only seen upon those
     who have to control horses or boys. Mr. John Mason had many of both
     under his sway, and he looked equal to the task. He bowed with cold
     self-possession and seated himself upon the chair to which Holmes had
     waved him.

     "You had my note, Mr. Holmes?"

     "Yes, but it explained nothing."

     "It was too delicate a thing for me to put the details on paper. And
     too complicated. It was only face to face I could do it."

     "Well, we are at your disposal."

     "First of all, Mr. Holmes, I think that my employer, Sir Robert, has
     gone mad."

     Holmes raised his eyebrows. "This is Baker Street, not Harley
     Street," said he. "But why do you say so?"

     "Well, sir, when a man does one queer thing, or two queer things,
     there may be a meaning to it, but when everything he does is queer,
     then you begin to wonder. I believe Shoscombe Prince and the Derby
     have turned his brain."

     "That is a colt you are running?"

     "The best in England, Mr. Holmes. I should know, if anyone does. Now,
     I'll be plain with you, for I know you are gentlemen of honour and
     that it won't go beyond the room. Sir Robert has got to win this
     Derby. He's up to the neck, and it's his last chance. Everything he
     could raise or borrow is on the horse--and at fine odds, too! You can
     get forties now, but it was nearer the hundred when he began to back
     him."

     "But how is that if the horse is so good?"

     "The public don't know how good he is. Sir Robert has been too clever
     for the touts. He has the Prince's half-brother out for spins. You
     can't tell 'em apart. But there are two lengths in a furlong between
     them when it comes to a gallop. He thinks of nothing but the horse
     and the race. His whole life is on it. He's holding off the Jews till
     then. If the Prince fails him he is done."

     "It seems a rather desperate gamble, but where does the madness come
     in?"

     "Well, first of all, you have only to look at him. I don't believe he
     sleeps at night. He is down at the stables at all hours. His eyes are
     wild. It has all been too much for his nerves. Then there is his
     conduct to Lady Beatrice!"

     "Ah! What is that?"

     "They have always been the best of friends. They had the same tastes,
     the two of them, and she loved the horses as much as he did. Every
     day at the same hour she would drive down to see them--and, above
     all, she loved the Prince. He would prick up his ears when he heard
     the wheels on the gravel, and he would trot out each morning to the
     carriage to get his lump of sugar. But that's all over now."

     "Why?"

     "Well, she seems to have lost all interest in the horses. For a week
     now she has driven past the stables with never so much as
     'Good-morning'!"

     "You think there has been a quarrel?"

     "And a bitter, savage, spiteful quarrel at that. Why else would he
     give away her pet spaniel that she loved as if he were her child? He
     gave it a fe