ot only the fears and dislike of his manager but also the
     execrations which so many business rivals have heaped upon his head.
     If I were a sculptor and desired to idealize the successful man of
     affairs, iron of nerve and leathery of conscience, I should choose
     Mr. Neil Gibson as my model. His tall, gaunt, craggy figure had a
     suggestion of hunger and rapacity. An Abraham Lincoln keyed to base
     uses instead of high ones would give some idea of the man. His face
     might have been chiselled in granite, hard-set, craggy, remorseless,
     with deep lines upon it, the scars of many a crisis. Cold gray eyes,
     looking shrewdly out from under bristling brows, surveyed us each in
     turn. He bowed in perfunctory fashion as Holmes mentioned my name,
     and then with a masterful air of possession he drew a chair up to my
     companion and seated himself with his bony knees almost touching him.

     "Let me say right here, Mr. Holmes," he began, "that money is nothing
     to me in this case. You can burn it if it's any use in lighting you
     to the truth. This woman is innocent and this woman has to be
     cleared, and it's up to you to do it. Name your figure!"

     "My professional charges are upon a fixed scale," said Holmes coldly.
     "I do not vary them, save when I remit them altogether."

     "Well, if dollars make no difference to you, think of the reputation.
     If you pull this off every paper in England and America will be
     booming you. You'll be the talk of two continents."

     "Thank you, Mr. Gibson, I do not think that I am in need of booming.
     It may surprise you to know that I prefer to work anonymously, and
     that it is the problem itself which attracts me. But we are wasting
     time. Let us get down to the facts."

     "I think that you will find all the main ones in the press reports. I
     don't know that I can add anything which will help you. But if there
     is anything you would wish more light upon--well, I am here to give
     it."

     "Well, there is just one point."

     "What is it?"

     "What were the exact relations between you and Miss Dunbar?"

     The Gold King gave a violent start and half rose from his chair. Then
     his massive calm came back to him.

     "I suppose you are within your rights--and maybe doing your duty--in
     asking such a question, Mr. Holmes."

     "We will agree to suppose so," said Holmes.

     "Then I can assure you that our relations were entirely and always
     those of an employer towards a young lady whom he never conversed
     with, or ever saw, save when she was in the company of his children."

     Holmes rose from his chair.

     "I am a rather busy man, Mr. Gibson," said he, "and I have no time or
     taste for aimless conversations. I wish you good-morning."

     Our visitor had risen also, and his great loose figure towered above
     Holmes. There was an angry gleam from under those bristling brows and
     a tinge of colour in the sallow cheeks.

     "What the devil do you mean by this, Mr. Holmes? Do you dismiss my
     case?"

     "Well, Mr. Gibson, at least I dismiss you. I should have thought my
     words were plain."

     "Plain enough, but what's at the back of it? Raising the price on me,
     or afraid to tackle it, or what? I've a right to a plain answer."

     "Well, perhaps you have," said Holmes. "I'll give you one. This case
     is quite sufficiently complicated to start with without the further
     difficulty of false information."

     "Meaning that I lie."

     "Well, I was trying to express it as delicately as I could, but if
     you insist upon the word I will not contradict you."

     I sprang to my feet, for the expression upon the millionaire's face
     was fiendish in its intensity, and he had raised his great knotted
     fist. Holmes smiled languidly and reached his hand out for his pipe.

     "Don't be noisy, Mr. Gibson. I find that after breakfast even the
     smallest argument is unsettling. I suggest that a stroll in the
     morning air and a little quiet thought will be greatly to your
     advantage."

     With an effort the Gold King mastered his fury. I could not but
     admire him, for by a supreme self-command he had turned in a minute
     from a hot flame of anger to a frigid and contemptuous indifference.

     "Well, it's your choice. I guess you know how to run your own
     business. I can't make you touch the case against your will. You've
     done yourself no good this morning, Mr. Holmes, for I have broken
     stronger men than you. No man ever crossed me and was the better for
     it."

     "So many have said so, and yet here I am," said Holmes, smiling.
     "Well, good-morning, Mr. Gibson. You have a good deal yet to learn."

     Our visitor made a noisy exit, but Holmes smoked in imperturbable
     silence with dreamy eyes fixed upon the ceiling.

     "Any views, Watson?" he asked at last.

  