 only a few hundred yards to the station. We will go together.
     You can stay here, Watson. I shall be back within half an hour."

     The old colourman had the strength of a lion in that great trunk of
     his, but he was helpless in the hands of the two experienced
     man-handlers. Wriggling and twisting he was dragged to the waiting
     cab, and I was left to my solitary vigil in the ill-omened house. In
     less time than he had named, however, Holmes was back, in company
     with a smart young police inspector.

     "I've left Barker to look after the formalities," said Holmes. "You
     had not met Barker, Watson. He is my hated rival upon the Surrey
     shore. When you said a tall dark man it was not difficult for me to
     complete the picture. He has several good cases to his credit, has he
     not, Inspector?"

     "He has certainly interfered several times," the inspector answered
     with reserve.

     "His methods are irregular, no doubt, like my own. The irregulars are
     useful sometimes, you know. You, for example, with your compulsory
     warning about whatever he said being used against him, could never
     have bluffed this rascal into what is virtually a confession."

     "Perhaps not. But we get there all the same, Mr. Holmes. Don't
     imagine that we had not formed our own views of this case, and that
     we would not have laid our hands on our man. You will excuse us for
     feeling sore when you jump in with methods which we cannot use, and
     so rob us of the credit."

     "There shall be no such robbery, MacKinnon. I assure you that I
     efface myself from now onward, and as to Barker, he has done nothing
     save what I told him."

     The inspector seemed considerably relieved.

     "That is very handsome of you, Mr. Holmes. Praise or blame can matter
     little to you, but it is very different to us when the newspapers
     begin to ask questions."

     "Quite so. But they are pretty sure to ask questions anyhow, so it
     would be as well to have answers. What will you say, for example,
     when the intelligent and enterprising reporter asks you what the
     exact points were which aroused your suspicion, and finally gave you
     a certain conviction as to the real facts?"

     The inspector looked puzzled.

     "We don't seem to have got any real facts yet, Mr. Holmes. You say
     that the prisoner, in the presence of three witnesses, practically
     confessed by trying to commit suicide, that he had murdered his wife
     and her lover. What other facts have you?"

     "Have you arranged for a search?"

     "There are three constables on their way."

     "Then you will soon get the clearest fact of all. The bodies cannot
     be far away. Try the cellars and the garden. It should not take long
     to dig up the likely places. This house is older than the
     water-pipes. There must be a disused well somewhere. Try your luck
     there."

     "But how did you know of it, and how was it done?"

     "I'll show you first how it was done, and then I will give the
     explanation which is due to you, and even more to my long-suffering
     friend here, who has been invaluable throughout. But, first, I would
     give you an insight into this man's mentality. It is a very unusual
     one--so much so that I think his destination is more likely to be
     Broadmoor than the scaffold. He has, to a high degree, the sort of
     mind which one associates with the mediaeval Italian nature rather
     than with the modern Briton. He was a miserable miser who made his
     wife so wretched by his niggardly ways that she was a ready prey for
     any adventurer. Such a one came upon the scene in the person of this
     chess-playing doctor. Amberley excelled at chess--one mark, Watson,
     of a scheming mind. Like all misers, he was a jealous man, and his
     jealousy became a frantic mania. Rightly or wrongly, he suspected an
     intrigue. He determined to have his revenge, and he planned it with
     diabolical cleverness. Come here!"

     Holmes led us along the passage with as much certainty as if he had
     lived in the house and halted at the open door of the strong-room.

     "Pooh! What an awful smell of paint!" cried the inspector.

     "That was our first clue," said Holmes. "You can thank Dr. Watson's
     observation for that, though he failed to draw the inference. It set
     my foot upon the trail. Why should this man at such a time be filling
     his house with strong odours? Obviously, to cover some other smell
     which he wished to conceal--some guilty smell which would suggest
     suspicions. Then came the idea of a room such as you see here with
     iron door and shutter--a hermetically sealed room. Put those two
     facts together, and whither do they lead? I could only determine that
     by examining the house myself. I was already certain that the case
     was serious, for I had examined the box-office