 worse than he is."

     "What is the matter?"

     Holmes took a rather soiled card from the table. "Josiah Amberley. He
     says he was junior partner of Brickfall and Amberley, who are
     manufacturers of artistic materials. You will see their names upon
     paint-boxes. He made his little pile, retired from business at the
     age of sixty-one, bought a house at Lewisham, and settled down to
     rest after a life of ceaseless grind. One would think his future was
     tolerably assured."

     "Yes, indeed."

     Holmes glanced over some notes which he had scribbled upon the back
     of an envelope.

     "Retired in 1896, Watson. Early in 1897 he married a woman twenty
     years younger than himself--a good-looking woman, too, if the
     photograph does not flatter. A competence, a wife, leisure--it seemed
     a straight road which lay before him. And yet within two years he is,
     as you have seen, as broken and miserable a creature as crawls
     beneath the sun."

     "But what has happened?"

     "The old story, Watson. A treacherous friend and a fickle wife. It
     would appear that Amberley has one hobby in life, and it is chess.
     Not far from him at Lewisham there lives a young doctor who is also a
     chess-player. I have noted his name as Dr. Ray Ernest. Ernest was
     frequently in the house, and an intimacy between him and Mrs.
     Amberley was a natural sequence, for you must admit that our
     unfortunate client has few outward graces, whatever his inner virtues
     may be. The couple went off together last week--destination untraced.
     What is more, the faithless spouse carried off the old man's deed-box
     as her personal luggage with a good part of his life's savings
     within. Can we find the lady? Can we save the money? A commonplace
     problem so far as it has developed, and yet a vital one for Josiah
     Amberley."

     "What will you do about it?"

     "Well, the immediate question, my dear Watson, happens to be, What
     will you do?--if you will be good enough to understudy me. You know
     that I am preoccupied with this case of the two Coptic Patriarchs,
     which should come to a head to-day. I really have not time to go out
     to Lewisham, and yet evidence taken on the spot has a special value.
     The old fellow was quite insistent that I should go, but I explained
     my difficulty. He is prepared to meet a representative."

     "By all means," I answered. "I confess I don't see that I can be of
     much service, but I am willing to do my best." And so it was that on
     a summer afternoon I set forth to Lewisham, little dreaming that
     within a week the affair in which I was engaging would be the eager
     debate of all England.

     It was late that evening before I returned to Baker Street and gave
     an account of my mission. Holmes lay with his gaunt figure stretched
     in his deep chair, his pipe curling forth slow wreaths of acrid
     tobacco, while his eyelids drooped over his eyes so lazily that he
     might almost have been asleep were it not that at any halt or
     questionable passage of my narrative they half lifted, and two gray
     eyes, as bright and keen as rapiers, transfixed me with their
     searching glance.

     "The Haven is the name of Mr. Josiah Amberley's house," I explained.
     "I think it would interest you, Holmes. It is like some penurious
     patrician who has sunk into the company of his inferiors. You know
     that particular quarter, the monotonous brick streets, the weary
     suburban highways. Right in the middle of them, a little island of
     ancient culture and comfort, lies this old home, surrounded by a high
     sun-baked wall mottled with lichens and topped with moss, the sort of
     wall--"

     "Cut out the poetry, Watson," said Holmes severely. "I note that it
     was a high brick wall."

     "Exactly. I should not have known which was The Haven had I not asked
     a lounger who was smoking in the street. I have a reason for
     mentioning him. He was a tall, dark, heavily moustached, rather
     military-looking man. He nodded in answer to my inquiry and gave me a
     curiously questioning glance, which came back to my memory a little
     later.

     "I had hardly entered the gateway before I saw Mr. Amberley coming
     down the drive. I only had a glimpse of him this morning, and he
     certainly gave me the impression of a strange creature, but when I
     saw him in full light his appearance was even more abnormal."

     "I have, of course, studied it, and yet I should be interested to
     have your impression," said Holmes.

     "He seemed to me like a man who was literally bowed down by care. His
     back was curved as though he carried a heavy burden. Yet he was not
     the weakling that I had at first imagined, for his shoulders and
     chest have the framework of a giant, though his figure tapers away
     into a pair of spindled legs