surprise
     he was very angry, and reproved me in words which were quite savage
     for my curiosity. It was the first time such a thing had happened,
     and I was deeply hurt. I endeavoured to explain that it was a mere
     accident that I had touched the box, but all the evening I was
     conscious that he looked at me harshly and that the incident was
     rankling in his mind." Mr. Bennett drew a little diary book from his
     pocket. "That was on July 2d," said he.

     "You are certainly an admirable witness," said Holmes. "I may need
     some of these dates which you have noted."

     "I learned method among other things from my great teacher. From the
     time that I observed abnormality in his behaviour I felt that it was
     my duty to study his case. Thus I have it here that it was on that
     very day, July 2d, that Roy attacked the professor as he came from
     his study into the hall. Again, on July 11th, there was a scene of
     the same sort, and then I have a note of yet another upon July 20th.
     After that we had to banish Roy to the stables. He was a dear,
     affectionate animal--but I fear I weary you."

     Mr. Bennett spoke in a tone of reproach, for it was very clear that
     Holmes was not listening. His face was rigid and his eyes gazed
     abstractedly at the ceiling. With an effort he recovered himself.

     "Singular! Most singular!" he murmured. "These details were new to
     me, Mr. Bennett. I think we have now fairly gone over the old ground,
     have we not? But you spoke of some fresh developments."

     The pleasant, open face of our visitor clouded over, shadowed by some
     grim remembrance. "What I speak of occurred the night before last,"
     said he. "I was lying awake about two in the morning, when I was
     aware of a dull muffled sound coming from the passage. I opened my
     door and peeped out. I should explain that the professor sleeps at
     the end of the passage--"

     "The date being--?" asked Holmes.

     Our visitor was clearly annoyed at so irrelevant an interruption.

     "I have said, sir, that it was the night before last--that is,
     September 4th."

     Holmes nodded and smiled.

     "Pray continue," said he.

     "He sleeps at the end of the passage and would have to pass my door
     in order to reach the staircase. It was a really terrifying
     experience, Mr. Holmes. I think that I am as strong-nerved as my
     neighbours, but I was shaken by what I saw. The passage was dark save
     that one window halfway along it threw a patch of light. I could see
     that something was coming along the passage, something dark and
     crouching. Then suddenly it emerged into the light, and I saw that it
     was he. He was crawling, Mr. Holmes--crawling! He was not quite on
     his hands and knees. I should rather say on his hands and feet, with
     his face sunk between his hands. Yet he seemed to move with ease. I
     was so paralyzed by the sight that it was not until he had reached my
     door that I was able to step forward and ask if I could assist him.
     His answer was extraordinary. He sprang up, spat out some atrocious
     word at me, and hurried on past me, and down the staircase. I waited
     about for an hour, but he did not come back. It must have been
     daylight before he regained his room."

     "Well, Watson, what make you of that?" asked Holmes with the air of
     the pathologist who presents a rare specimen.

     "Lumbago, possibly. I have known a severe attack make a man walk in
     just such a way, and nothing would be more trying to the temper."

     "Good, Watson! You always keep us flat-footed on the ground. But we
     can hardly accept lumbago, since he was able to stand erect in a
     moment."

     "He was never better in health," said Bennett. "In fact, he is
     stronger than I have known him for years. But there are the facts,
     Mr. Holmes. It is not a case in which we can consult the police, and
     yet we are utterly at our wit's end as to what to do, and we feel in
     some strange way that we are drifting towards disaster. Edith--Miss
     Presbury--feels as I do, that we cannot wait passively any longer."

     "It is certainly a very curious and suggestive case. What do you
     think, Watson?"

     "Speaking as a medical man," said I, "it appears to be a case for an
     alienist. The old gentleman's cerebral processes were disturbed by
     the love affair. He made a journey abroad in the hope of breaking
     himself of the passion. His letters and the box may be connected with
     some other private transaction--a loan, perhaps, or share
     certificates, which are in the box."

     "And the wolfhound no doubt disapproved of the financial bargain. No,
     no, Watson, there is more in it than this. Now, I can only suggest--"

     What Sherlock Holmes was about to suggest will never be known, for at
     this moment the door opened and a young la