wn while the gates are opened. When it comes through, and before it
     gathers speed, I want you, Watson, to stop the coachman with some
     question. Never mind me. I shall stand behind this holly-bush and see
     what I can see."

     It was not a long vigil. Within a quarter of an hour we saw the big
     open yellow barouche coming down the long avenue, with two splendid,
     high-stepping gray carriage horses in the shafts. Holmes crouched
     behind his bush with the dog. I stood unconcernedly swinging a cane
     in the roadway. A keeper ran out and the gates swung open.

     The carriage had slowed to a walk, and I was able to get a good look
     at the occupants. A highly coloured young woman with flaxen hair and
     impudent eyes sat on the left. At her right was an elderly person
     with rounded back and a huddle of shawls about her face and shoulders
     which proclaimed the invalid. When the horses reached the highroad I
     held up my hand with an authoritative gesture, and as the coachman
     pulled up I inquired if Sir Robert was at Shoscombe Old Place.

     At the same moment Holmes stepped out and released the spaniel. With
     a joyous cry it dashed forward to the carriage and sprang upon the
     step. Then in a moment its eager greeting changed to furious rage,
     and it snapped at the black skirt above it.

     "Drive on! Drive on!" shrieked a harsh voice. The coachman lashed the
     horses, and we were left standing in the roadway.

     "Well, Watson, that's done it," said Holmes as he fastened the lead
     to the neck of the excited spaniel. "He thought it was his mistress,
     and he found it was a stranger. Dogs don't make mistakes."

     "But it was the voice of a man!" I cried.

     "Exactly! We have added one card to our hand, Watson, but it needs
     careful playing, all the same."

     My companion seemed to have no further plans for the day, and we did
     actually use our fishing tackle in the mill-stream, with the result
     that we had a dish of trout for our supper. It was only after that
     meal that Holmes showed signs of renewed activity. Once more we found
     ourselves upon the same road as in the morning, which led us to the
     park gates. A tall, dark figure was awaiting us there, who proved to
     be our London acquaintance, Mr. John Mason, the trainer.

     "Good-evening, gentlemen," said he. "I got your note, Mr. Holmes. Sir
     Robert has not returned yet, but I hear that he is expected
     to-night."

     "How far is this crypt from the house?" asked Holmes.

     "A good quarter of a mile."

     "Then I think we can disregard him altogether."

     "I can't afford to do that, Mr. Holmes. The moment he arrives he will
     want to see me to get the last news of Shoscombe Prince."

     "I see! In that case we must work without you, Mr. Mason. You can
     show us the crypt and then leave us."

     It was pitch-dark and without a moon, but Mason led us over the
     grass-lands until a dark mass loomed up in front of us which proved
     to be the ancient chapel. We entered the broken gap which was once
     the porch, and our guide, stumbling among heaps of loose masonry,
     picked his way to the corner of the building, where a steep stair led
     down into the crypt. Striking a match, he illuminated the melancholy
     place--dismal and evil-smelling, with ancient crumbling walls of
     rough-hewn stone, and piles of coffins, some of lead and some of
     stone, extending upon one side right up to the arched and groined
     roof which lost itself in the shadows above our heads. Holmes had lit
     his lantern, which shot a tiny tunnel of vivid yellow light upon the
     mournful scene. Its rays were reflected back from the coffin-plates,
     many of them adorned with the griffin and coronet of this old family
     which carried its honours even to the gate of Death.

     "You spoke of some bones, Mr. Mason. Could you show them before you
     go?"

     "They are here in this corner." The trainer strode across and then
     stood in silent surprise as our light was turned upon the place.
     "They are gone," said he.

     "So I expected," said Holmes, chuckling. "I fancy the ashes of them
     might even now be found in that oven which had already consumed a
     part."

     "But why in the world would anyone want to burn the bones of a man
     who has been dead a thousand years?" asked John Mason.

     "That is what we are here to find out," said Holmes. "It may mean a
     long search, and we need not detain you. I fancy that we shall get
     our solution before morning."

     When John Mason had left us, Holmes set to work making a very careful
     examination of the graves, ranging from a very ancient one, which
     appeared to be Saxon, in the centre, through a long line of Norman
     Hugos and Odos, until we reached the Sir William and Sir Denis Falder
     of the eighteenth century. It was an h