dy was shown into the room.
     As she appeared Mr. Bennett sprang up with a cry and ran forward with
     his hands out to meet those which she had herself outstretched.

     "Edith, dear! Nothing the matter, I hope?"

     "I felt I must follow you. Oh, Jack, I have been so dreadfully
     frightened! It is awful to be there alone."

     "Mr. Holmes, this is the young lady I spoke of. This is my fiancee."

     "We were gradually coming to that conclusion, were we not, Watson?"
     Holmes answered with a smile. "I take it, Miss Presbury, that there
     is some fresh development in the case, and that you thought we should
     know?"

     Our new visitor, a bright, handsome girl of a conventional English
     type, smiled back at Holmes as she seated herself beside Mr. Bennett.

     "When I found Mr. Bennett had left his hotel I thought I should
     probably find him here. Of course, he had told me that he would
     consult you. But, oh, Mr. Holmes, can you do nothing for my poor
     father?"

     "I have hopes, Miss Presbury, but the case is still obscure. Perhaps
     what you have to say may throw some fresh light upon it."

     "It was last night, Mr. Holmes. He had been very strange all day. I
     am sure that there are times when he has no recollection of what he
     does. He lives as in a strange dream. Yesterday was such a day. It
     was not my father with whom I lived. His outward shell was there, but
     it was not really he."

     "Tell me what happened."

     "I was awakened in the night by the dog barking most furiously. Poor
     Roy, he is chained now near the stable. I may say that I always sleep
     with my door locked; for, as Jack--as Mr. Bennett--will tell you, we
     all have a feeling of impending danger. My room is on the second
     floor. It happened that the blind was up in my window, and there was
     bright moonlight outside. As I lay with my eyes fixed upon the square
     of light, listening to the frenzied barkings of the dog, I was amazed
     to see my father's face looking in at me. Mr. Holmes, I nearly died
     of surprise and horror. There it was pressed against the window-pane,
     and one hand seemed to be raised as if to push up the window. If that
     window had opened, I think I should have gone mad. It was no
     delusion, Mr. Holmes. Don't deceive yourself by thinking so. I dare
     say it was twenty seconds or so that I lay paralyzed and watched the
     face. Then it vanished, but I could not--I could not spring out of
     bed and look out after it. I lay cold and shivering till morning. At
     breakfast he was sharp and fierce in manner, and made no allusion to
     the adventure of the night. Neither did I, but I gave an excuse for
     coming to town--and here I am."

     Holmes looked thoroughly surprised at Miss Presbury's narrative.

     "My dear young lady, you say that your room is on the second floor.
     Is there a long ladder in the garden?"

     "No, Mr. Holmes, that is the amazing part of it. There is no possible
     way of reaching the window--and yet he was there."

     "The date being September 5th," said Holmes. "That certainly
     complicates matters."

     It was the young lady's turn to look surprised. "This is the second
     time that you have alluded to the date, Mr. Holmes," said Bennett.
     "Is it possible that it has any bearing upon the case?"

     "It is possible--very possible--and yet I have not my full material
     at present."

     "Possibly you are thinking of the connection between insanity and
     phases of the moon?"

     "No, I assure you. It was quite a different line of thought. Possibly
     you can leave your notebook with me, and I will check the dates. Now
     I think, Watson, that our line of action is perfectly clear. This
     young lady has informed us--and I have the greatest confidence in her
     intuition--that her father remembers little or nothing which occurs
     upon certain dates. We will therefore call upon him as if he had
     given us an appointment upon such a date. He will put it down to his
     own lack of memory. Thus we will open our campaign by having a good
     close view of him."

     "That is excellent," said Mr. Bennett. "I warn you, however, that the
     professor is irascible and violent at times."

     Holmes smiled. "There are reasons why we should come at once--very
     cogent reasons if my theories hold good. To-morrow, Mr. Bennett, will
     certainly see us in Camford. There is, if I remember right, an inn
     called the Chequers where the port used to be above mediocrity and
     the linen was above reproach. I think, Watson, that our lot for the
     next few days might lie in less pleasant places."

     Monday morning found us on our way to the famous university town--an
     easy effort on the part of Holmes, who had no roots to pull up, but
     one which involved frantic planning and hurrying on my part, as my
     practice wa