ood upon the
     child's exposed neck and upon the sheet. With a cry of horror, he
     turned his wife's face to the light and saw blood all round her lips.
     It was she--she beyond all question--who had drunk the poor baby's
     blood.
     So the matter stands. She is now confined to her room. There has been
     no explanation. The husband is half demented. He knows, and I know,
     little of vampirism beyond the name. We had thought it was some wild
     tale of foreign parts. And yet here in the very heart of the English
     Sussex--well, all this can be discussed with you in the morning. Will
     you see me? Will you use your great powers in aiding a distracted
     man? If so, kindly wire to Ferguson, Cheeseman's, Lamberley, and I
     will be at your rooms by ten o'clock.
     Yours faithfully,
     Robert Ferguson.
     P. S. I believe your friend Watson played Rugby for Blackheath when I
     was three-quarter for Richmond. It is the only personal introduction
     which I can give.

     "Of course I remembered him," said I as I laid down the letter. "Big
     Bob Ferguson, the finest three-quarter Richmond ever had. He was
     always a good-natured chap. It's like him to be so concerned over a
     friend's case."

     Holmes looked at me thoughtfully and shook his head.

     "I never get your limits, Watson," said he.  "There are unexplored
     possibilities about you. Take a wire down, like a good fellow. 'Will
     examine your case with pleasure.'"

     "Your case!"

     "We must not let him think that this agency is a home for the
     weak-minded. Of course it is his case. Send him that wire and let the
     matter rest till morning."

     Promptly at ten o'clock next morning Ferguson strode into our room. I
     had remembered him as a long, slab-sided man with loose limbs and a
     fine turn of speed which had carried him round many an opposing back.
     There is surely nothing in life more painful than to meet the wreck
     of a fine athlete whom one has known in his prime. His great frame
     had fallen in, his flaxen hair was scanty, and his shoulders were
     bowed. I fear that I roused corresponding emotions in him.

     "Hullo, Watson," said he, and his voice was still deep and hearty.
     "You don't look quite the man you did when I threw you over the ropes
     into the crowd at the Old Deer Park. I expect I have changed a bit
     also. But it's this last day or two that has aged me. I see by your
     telegram, Mr. Holmes, that it is no use my pretending to be anyone's
     deputy."

     "It is simpler to deal direct," said Holmes.

     "Of course it is. But you can imagine how difficult it is when you
     are speaking of the one woman whom you are bound to protect and help.
     What can I do? How am I to go to the police with such a story? And
     yet the kiddies have got to be protected. Is it madness, Mr. Holmes?
     Is it something in the blood? Have you any similar case in your
     experience? For God's sake, give me some advice, for I am at my wit's
     end."

     "Very naturally, Mr. Ferguson. Now sit here and pull yourself
     together and give me a few clear answers. I can assure you that I am
     very far from being at my wit's end, and that I am confident we shall
     find some solution.  First of all, tell me what steps you have taken.
     Is your wife still near the children?"

     "We had a dreadful scene. She is a most loving woman, Mr.  Holmes. If
     ever a woman loved a man with all her heart and soul, she loves me.
     She was cut to the heart that I should have discovered this horrible,
     this incredible, secret. She would not even speak. She gave no answer
     to my reproaches, save to gaze at me with a sort of wild, despairing
     look in her eyes. Then she rushed to her room and locked herself in.
     Since then she has refused to see me. She has a maid who was with her
     before her marriage, Dolores by name--a friend rather than a servant.
     She takes her food to her."

     "Then the child is in no immediate danger?"

     "Mrs. Mason, the nurse, has sworn that she will not leave it night or
     day. I can absolutely trust her. I am more uneasy about poor little
     Jack, for, as I told you in my note, he has twice been assaulted by
     her."

     "But never wounded?"

     "No, she struck him savagely. It is the more terrible as he is a poor
     little inoffensive cripple." Ferguson's gaunt features softened as he
     spoke of his boy. "You would think that the dear lad's condition
     would soften anyone's heart. A fall in childhood and a twisted spine,
     Mr. Holmes. But the dearest, most loving heart within."

     Holmes had picked up the letter of yesterday and was reading it over.
     "What other inmates are there in your house, Mr. Ferguson?"

     "Two servants who have not been long with us. One stable-hand,
     Michael, who sleeps in the house. My wife, myself, my boy Jack, baby,
 