t
     they might have cowed it. Hence her cries of 'Coward!'"

     "Brilliant, Watson! Only one flaw in your diamond."

     "What is the flaw, Holmes?"

     "If they were both ten paces from the cage, how came the beast to get
     loose?"

     "Is it possible that they had some enemy who loosed it?"

     "And why should it attack them savagely when it was in the habit of
     playing with them, and doing tricks with them inside the cage?"

     "Possibly the same enemy had done something to enrage it."

     Holmes looked thoughtful and remained in silence for some moments.

     "Well, Watson, there is this to be said for your theory. Ronder was a
     man of many enemies. Edmunds told me that in his cups he was
     horrible. A huge bully of a man, he cursed and slashed at everyone
     who came in his way. I expect those cries about a monster, of which
     our visitor has spoken, were nocturnal reminiscences of the dear
     departed. However, our speculations are futile until we have all the
     facts. There is a cold partridge on the sideboard, Watson, and a
     bottle of Montrachet. Let us renew our energies before we make a
     fresh call upon them."

     When our hansom deposited us at the house of Mrs. Merrilow, we found
     that plump lady blocking up the open door of her humble but retired
     abode. It was very clear that her chief preoccupation was lest she
     should lose a valuable lodger, and she implored us, before showing us
     up, to say and do nothing which could lead to so undesirable an end.
     Then, having reassured her, we followed her up the straight, badly
     carpeted staircase and were shown into the room of the mysterious
     lodger.

     It was a close, musty, ill-ventilated place, as might be expected,
     since its inmate seldom left it. From keeping beasts in a cage, the
     woman seemed, by some retribution of fate, to have become herself a
     beast in a cage. She sat now in a broken armchair in the shadowy
     corner of the room. Long years of inaction had coarsened the lines of
     her figure, but at some period it must have been beautiful, and was
     still full and voluptuous. A thick dark veil covered her face, but it
     was cut off close at her upper lip and disclosed a perfectly shaped
     mouth and a delicately rounded chin. I could well conceive that she
     had indeed been a very remarkable woman. Her voice, too, was well
     modulated and pleasing.

     "My name is not unfamiliar to you, Mr. Holmes," said she. "I thought
     that it would bring you."

     "That is so, madam, though I do not know how you are aware that I was
     interested in your case."

     "I learned it when I had recovered my health and was examined by Mr.
     Edmunds, the county detective. I fear I lied to him. Perhaps it would
     have been wiser had I told the truth."

     "It is usually wiser to tell the truth. But why did you lie to him?"

     "Because the fate of someone else depended upon it. I know that he
     was a very worthless being, and yet I would not have his destruction
     upon my conscience. We had been so close--so close!"

     "But has this impediment been removed?"

     "Yes, sir. The person that I allude to is dead."

     "Then why should you not now tell the police anything you know?"

     "Because there is another person to be considered. That other person
     is myself. I could not stand the scandal and publicity which would
     come from a police examination. I have not long to live, but I wish
     to die undisturbed. And yet I wanted to find one man of judgment to
     whom I could tell my terrible story, so that when I am gone all might
     be understood."

     "You compliment me, madam. At the same time, I am a responsible
     person. I do not promise you that when you have spoken I may not
     myself think it my duty to refer the case to the police."

     "I think not, Mr. Holmes. I know your character and methods too well,
     for I have followed your work for some years. Reading is the only
     pleasure which fate has left me, and I miss little which passes in
     the world. But in any case, I will take my chance of the use which
     you may make of my tragedy. It will ease my mind to tell it."

     "My friend and I would be glad to hear it."

     The woman rose and took from a drawer the photograph of a man. He was
     clearly a professional acrobat, a man of magnificent physique, taken
     with his huge arms folded across his swollen chest and a smile
     breaking from under his heavy moustache--the self-satisfied smile of
     the man of many conquests.

     "That is Leonardo," she said.

     "Leonardo, the strong man, who gave evidence?"

     "The same. And this--this is my husband."

     It was a dreadful face--a human pig, or rather a human wild boar, for
     it was formidable in its bestiality. One could imagine that vile
     mouth champing and foaming in its rage, and one could conce