ive those
     small, vicious eyes darting pure malignancy as they looked forth upon
     the world. Ruffian, bully, beast--it was all written on that
     heavy-jowled face.

     "Those two pictures will help you, gentlemen, to understand the
     story. I was a poor circus girl brought up on the sawdust, and doing
     springs through the hoop before I was ten. When I became a woman this
     man loved me, if such lust as his can be called love, and in an evil
     moment I became his wife. From that day I was in hell, and he the
     devil who tormented me. There was no one in the show who did not know
     of his treatment. He deserted me for others. He tied me down and
     lashed me with his riding-whip when I complained. They all pitied me
     and they all loathed him, but what could they do? They feared him,
     one and all. For he was terrible at all times, and murderous when he
     was drunk. Again and again he was had up for assault, and for cruelty
     to the beasts, but he had plenty of money and the fines were nothing
     to him. The best men all left us, and the show began to go downhill.
     It was only Leonardo and I who kept it up--with little Jimmy Griggs,
     the clown. Poor devil, he had not much to be funny about, but he did
     what he could to hold things together.

     "Then Leonardo came more and more into my life. You see what he was
     like. I know now the poor spirit that was hidden in that splendid
     body, but compared to my husband he seemed like the angel Gabriel. He
     pitied me and helped me, till at last our intimacy turned to
     love--deep, deep, passionate love, such love as I had dreamed of but
     never hoped to feel. My husband suspected it, but I think that he was
     a coward as well as a bully, and that Leonardo was the one man that
     he was afraid of. He took revenge in his own way by torturing me more
     than ever. One night my cries brought Leonardo to the door of our
     van. We were near tragedy that night, and soon my lover and I
     understood that it could not be avoided. My husband was not fit to
     live. We planned that he should die.

     "Leonardo had a clever, scheming brain. It was he who planned it. I
     do not say that to blame him, for I was ready to go with him every
     inch of the way. But I should never have had the wit to think of such
     a plan. We made a club--Leonardo made it--and in the leaden head he
     fastened five long steel nails, the points outward, with just such a
     spread as the lion's paw. This was to give my husband his death-blow,
     and yet to leave the evidence that it was the lion which we would
     loose who had done the deed.

     "It was a pitch-dark night when my husband and I went down, as was
     our custom, to feed the beast. We carried with us the raw meat in a
     zinc pail. Leonardo was waiting at the corner of the big van which we
     should have to pass before we reached the cage. He was too slow, and
     we walked past him before he could strike, but he followed us on
     tiptoe and I heard the crash as the club smashed my husband's skull.
     My heart leaped with joy at the sound. I sprang forward, and I undid
     the catch which held the door of the great lion's cage.

     "And then the terrible thing happened. You may have heard how quick
     these creatures are to scent human blood, and how it excites them.
     Some strange instinct had told the creature in one instant that a
     human being had been slain. As I slipped the bars it bounded out and
     was on me in an instant. Leonardo could have saved me. If he had
     rushed forward and struck the beast with his club he might have cowed
     it. But the man lost his nerve. I heard him shout in his terror, and
     then I saw him turn and fly. At the same instant the teeth of the
     lion met in my face. Its hot, filthy breath had already poisoned me
     and I was hardly conscious of pain. With the palms of my hands I
     tried to push the great steaming, blood-stained jaws away from me,
     and I screamed for help. I was conscious that the camp was stirring,
     and then dimly I remembered a group of men. Leonardo, Griggs, and
     others, dragging me from under the creature's paws. That was my last
     memory, Mr. Holmes, for many a weary month. When I came to myself and
     saw myself in the mirror, I cursed that lion--oh, how I cursed
     him!--not because he had torn away my beauty but because he had not
     torn away my life. I had but one desire, Mr. Holmes, and I had enough
     money to gratify it. It was that I should cover myself so that my
     poor face should be seen by none, and that I should dwell where none
     whom I had ever known should find me. That was all that was left to
     me to do--and that is what I have done. A poor wounded beast that has
     crawled into its hole to die--that is the end of Eugenia Ronder."

     We sat in silence for some time after the unhapp