int by quite a number of
     independent incidents, then the subjective becomes objective and we
     can say confidently that we have reached our goal. I had, in fact,
     reached it before we left Baker Street, and the rest has merely been
     observation and confirmation."

     Ferguson put his big hand to his furrowed forehead.

     "For heaven's sake, Holmes," he said hoarsely; "if you can see the
     truth in this matter, do not keep me in suspense. How do I stand?
     What shall I do? I care nothing as to how you have found your facts
     so long as you have really got them."

     "Certainly I owe you an explanation, and you shall have it. But you
     will permit me to handle the matter in my own way? Is the lady
     capable of seeing us, Watson?"

     "She is ill, but she is quite rational."

     "Very good. It is only in her presence that we can clear the matter
     up. Let us go up to her."

     "She will not see me," cried Ferguson.

     "Oh, yes, she will," said Holmes. He scribbled a few lines upon a
     sheet of paper. "You at least have the entree, Watson. Will you have
     the goodness to give the lady this note?"

     I ascended again and handed the note to Dolores, who cautiously
     opened the door. A minute later I heard a cry from within, a cry in
     which joy and surprise seemed to be blended. Dolores looked out.

     "She will see them. She will leesten," said she.

     At my summons Ferguson and Holmes came up. As we entered the room
     Ferguson took a step or two towards his wife, who had raised herself
     in the bed, but she held out her hand to repulse him. He sank into an
     armchair, while Holmes seated himself beside him, after bowing to the
     lady, who looked at him with wide-eyed amazement.

     "I think we can dispense with Dolores," said Holmes.  "Oh, very well,
     madame, if you would rather she stayed I can see no objection. Now,
     Mr. Ferguson, I am a busy man with many calls, and my methods have to
     be short and direct.  The swiftest surgery is the least painful. Let
     me first say what will ease your mind. Your wife is a very good, a
     very loving, and a very ill-used woman."

     Ferguson sat up with a cry of joy.

     "Prove that, Mr. Holmes, and I am your debtor forever."

     "I will do so, but in doing so I must wound you deeply in another
     direction."

     "I care nothing so long as you clear my wife. Everything on earth is
     insignificant compared to that."

     "Let me tell you, then, the train of reasoning which passed through
     my mind in Baker Street. The idea of a vampire was to me absurd. Such
     things do not happen in criminal practice in England. And yet your
     observation was precise. You had seen the lady rise from beside the
     child's cot with the blood upon her lips."

     "I did."

     "Did it not occur to you that a bleeding wound may be sucked for some
     other purpose than to draw the blood from it? Was there not a queen
     in English history who sucked such a wound to draw poison from it?"

     "Poison!"

     "A South American household. My instinct felt the presence of those
     weapons upon the wall before my eyes ever saw them. It might have
     been other poison, but that was what occurred to me. When I saw that
     little empty quiver beside the small bird-bow, it was just what I
     expected to see. If the child were pricked with one of those arrows
     dipped in curare or some other devilish drug, it would mean death if
     the venom were not sucked out.

     "And the dog! If one were to use such a poison, would one not try it
     first in order to see that it had not lost its power? I did not
     foresee the dog, but at least I understand him and he fitted into my
     reconstruction.

     "Now do you understand? Your wife feared such an attack.  She saw it
     made and saved the child's life, and yet she shrank from telling you
     all the truth, for she knew how you loved the boy and feared lest it
     break your heart."

     "Jacky!"

     "I watched him as you fondled the child just now. His face was
     clearly reflected in the glass of the window where the shutter formed
     a background. I saw such jealousy, such cruel hatred, as I have
     seldom seen in a human face."

     "My Jacky!"

     "You have to face it, Mr. Ferguson. It is the more painful because it
     is a distorted love, a maniacal exaggerated love for you, and
     possibly for his dead mother, which has prompted his action. His very
     soul is consumed with hatred for this splendid child, whose health
     and beauty are a contrast to his own weakness."

     "Good God! It is incredible!"

     "Have I spoken the truth, madame?"

     The lady was sobbing, with her face buried in the pillows. Now she
     turned to her husband.

     "How could I tell you, Bob? I felt the blow it would be to you. It
     was better that I should wait and that it should come from s