w days ago to old Barnes, what keeps the Green Dragon,
     three miles off, at Crendall."

     "That certainly did seem strange."

     "Of course, with her weak heart and dropsy one couldn't expect that
     she could get about with him, but he spent two hours every evening in
     her room. He might well do what he could, for she has been a rare
     good friend to him. But that's all over, too. He never goes near her.
     And she takes it to heart. She is brooding and sulky and drinking,
     Mr. Holmes--drinking like a fish."

     "Did she drink before this estrangement?"

     "Well, she took her glass, but now it is often a whole bottle of an
     evening. So Stephens, the butler, told me. It's all changed, Mr.
     Holmes, and there is something damned rotten about it. But then,
     again, what is master doing down at the old church crypt at night?
     And who is the man that meets him there?"

     Holmes rubbed his hands.

     "Go on, Mr. Mason. You get more and more interesting."

     "It was the butler who saw him go. Twelve o'clock at night and
     raining hard. So next night I was up at the house and, sure enough,
     master was off again. Stephens and I went after him, but it was jumpy
     work, for it would have been a bad job if he had seen us. He's a
     terrible man with his fists if he gets started, and no respecter of
     persons. So we were shy of getting too near, but we marked him down
     all right. It was the haunted crypt that he was making for, and there
     was a man waiting for him there."

     "What is this haunted crypt?"

     "Well, sir, there is an old ruined chapel in the park. It is so old
     that nobody could fix its date. And under it there's a crypt which
     has a bad name among us. It's a dark, damp, lonely place by day, but
     there are few in that county that would have the nerve to go near it
     at night. But master's not afraid. He never feared anything in his
     life. But what is he doing there in the night-time?"

     "Wait a bit!" said Holmes. "You say there is another man there. It
     must be one of your own stablemen, or someone from the house! Surely
     you have only to spot who it is and question him?"

     "It's no one I know."

     "How can you say that?"

     "Because I have seen him, Mr. Holmes. It was on that second night.
     Sir Robert turned and passed us--me and Stephens, quaking in the
     bushes like two bunny-rabbits, for there was a bit of moon that
     night. But we could hear the other moving about behind. We were not
     afraid of him. So we up when Sir Robert was gone and pretended we
     were just having a walk like in the moonlight, and so we came right
     on him as casual and innocent as you please. 'Hullo, mate! who may
     you be?' says I. I guess he had not heard us coming, so he looked
     over his shoulder with a face as if he had seen the devil coming out
     of hell. He let out a yell, and away he went as hard as he could lick
     it in the darkness. He could run!--I'll give him that. In a minute he
     was out of sight and hearing, and who he was, or what he was, we
     never found."

     "But you saw him clearly in the moonlight?"

     "Yes, I would swear to his yellow face--a mean dog, I should say.
     What could he have in common with Sir Robert?"

     Holmes sat for some time lost in thought.

     "Who keeps Lady Beatrice Falder company?" he asked at last.

     "There is her maid, Carrie Evans. She has been with her this five
     years."

     "And is, no doubt, devoted?"

     Mr. Mason shuffled uncomfortably.

     "She's devoted enough," he answered at last. "But I won't say to
     whom."

     "Ah!" said Holmes.

     "I can't tell tales out of school."

     "I quite understand, Mr. Mason. Of course, the situation is clear
     enough. From Dr. Watson's description of Sir Robert I can realize
     that no woman is safe from him. Don't you think the quarrel between
     brother and sister may lie there?"

     "Well, the scandal has been pretty clear for a long time."

     "But she may not have seen it before. Let us suppose that she has
     suddenly found it out. She wants to get rid of the woman. Her brother
     will not permit it. The invalid, with her weak heart and inability to
     get about, has no means of enforcing her will. The hated maid is
     still tied to her. The lady refuses to speak, sulks, takes to drink.
     Sir Robert in his anger takes her pet spaniel away from her. Does not
     all this hang together?"

     "Well, it might do--so far as it goes."

     "Exactly! As far as it goes. How would all that bear upon the visits
     by night to the old crypt? We can't fit that into our plot."

     "No, sir, and there is something more that I can't fit in. Why should
     Sir Robert want to dig up a dead body?"

     Holmes sat up abruptly.

     "We only found it out yesterday--after I had written to you.
     Yesterday Sir Robert had gone to Lo