ews. I have always
     known that if my sister were to die my creditors would be on to my
     estate like a flock of vultures. Everything would be seized--my
     stables, my horses--everything. Well, Mr. Holmes, my sister did die
     just a week ago."

     "And you told no one!"

     "What could I do? Absolute ruin faced me. If I could stave things off
     for three weeks all would be well. Her maid's husband--this man
     here--is an actor. It came into our heads--it came into my head--that
     he could for that short period personate my sister. It was but a case
     of appearing daily in the carriage, for no one need enter her room
     save the maid. It was not difficult to arrange. My sister died of the
     dropsy which had long afflicted her."

     "That will be for a coroner to decide."

     "Her doctor would certify that for months her symptoms have
     threatened such an end."

     "Well, what did you do?"

     "The body could not remain there. On the first night Norlett and I
     carried it out to the old well-house, which is now never used. We
     were followed, however, by her pet spaniel, which yapped continually
     at the door, so I felt some safer place was needed. I got rid of the
     spaniel, and we carried the body to the crypt of the church. There
     was no indignity or irreverence, Mr. Holmes. I do not feel that I
     have wronged the dead."

     "Your conduct seems to me inexcusable, Sir Robert."

     The baronet shook his head impatiently. "It is easy to preach," said
     he. "Perhaps you would have felt differently if you had been in my
     position. One cannot see all one's hopes and all one's plans
     shattered at the last moment and make no effort to save them. It
     seemed to me that it would be no unworthy resting-place if we put her
     for the time in one of the coffins of her husband's ancestors lying
     in what is still consecrated ground. We opened such a coffin, removed
     the contents, and placed her as you have seen her. As to the old
     relics which we took out, we could not leave them on the floor of the
     crypt. Norlett and I removed them, and he descended at night and
     burned them in the central furnace. There is my story, Mr. Holmes,
     though how you forced my hand so that I have to tell it is more than
     I can say."

     Holmes sat for some time lost in thought.

     "There is one flaw in your narrative, Sir Robert," he said at last.
     "Your bets on the race, and therefore your hopes for the future,
     would hold good even if your creditors seized your estate."

     "The horse would be part of the estate. What do they care for my
     bets? As likely as not they would not run him at all. My chief
     creditor is, unhappily, my most bitter enemy--a rascally fellow, Sam
     Brewer, whom I was once compelled to horsewhip on Newmarket Heath. Do
     you suppose that he would try to save me?"

     "Well, Sir Robert," said Holmes, rising, "this matter must, of
     course, be referred to the police. It was my duty to bring the facts
     to light, and there I must leave it. As to the morality or decency of
     your conduct, it is not for me to express an opinion. It is nearly
     midnight, Watson, and I think we may make our way back to our humble
     abode."

     It is generally known now that this singular episode ended upon a
     happier note than Sir Robert's actions deserved. Shoscombe Prince did
     win the Derby, the sporting owner did net eighty thousand pounds in
     bets, and the creditors did hold their hand until the race was over,
     when they were paid in full, and enough was left to reestablish Sir
     Robert in a fair position in life. Both police and coroner took a
     lenient view of the transaction, and beyond a mild censure for the
     delay in registering the lady's decease, the lucky owner got away
     scatheless from this strange incident in a career which has now
     outlived its shadows and promises to end in an honoured old age.






                     THE ADVENTURE OF THE RETIRED COLOURMAN

     Sherlock Holmes was in a melancholy and philosophic mood that
     morning. His alert practical nature was subject to such reactions.

     "Did you see him?" he asked.

     "You mean the old fellow who has just gone out?"

     "Precisely."

     "Yes, I met him at the door."

     "What did you think of him?"

     "A pathetic, futile, broken creature."

     "Exactly, Watson. Pathetic and futile. But is not all life pathetic
     and futile? Is not his story a microcosm of the whole? We reach. We
     grasp. And what is left in our hands at the end? A shadow. Or worse
     than a shadow--misery."

     "Is he one of your clients?"

     "Well, I suppose I may call him so. He has been sent on by the Yard.
     Just as medical men occasionally send their incurables to a quack.
     They argue that they can do nothing more, and that whatever happens
     the patient can be no