d it, since this young lady was in a sense under your
     protection."

     "Well, maybe so," said the millionaire, though for a moment the
     reproof had brought the old angry gleam into his eyes. "I'm not
     pretending to be any better than I am. I guess all my life I've been
     a man that reached out his hand for what he wanted, and I never
     wanted anything more than the love and possession of that woman. I
     told her so."

     "Oh, you did, did you?"

     Holmes could look very formidable when he was moved.

     "I said to her that if I could marry her I would, but that it was out
     of my power. I said that money was no object and that all I could do
     to make her happy and comfortable would be done."

     "Very generous, I am sure," said Holmes with a sneer.

     "See here, Mr. Holmes. I came to you on a question of evidence, not
     on a question of morals. I'm not asking for your criticism."

     "It is only for the young lady's sake that I touch your case at all,"
     said Holmes sternly. "I don't know that anything she is accused of is
     really worse than what you have yourself admitted, that you have
     tried to ruin a defenceless girl who was under your roof. Some of you
     rich men have to be taught that all the world cannot be bribed into
     condoning your offences."

     To my surprise the Gold King took the reproof with equanimity.

     "That's how I feel myself about it now. I thank God that my plans did
     not work out as I intended. She would have none of it, and she wanted
     to leave the house instantly."

     "Why did she not?"

     "Well, in the first place, others were dependent upon her, and it was
     no light matter for her to let them all down by sacrificing her
     living. When I had sworn--as I did--that she should never be molested
     again, she consented to remain. But there was another reason. She
     knew the influence she had over me, and that it was stronger than any
     other influence in the world. She wanted to use it for good."

     "How?"

     "Well, she knew something of my affairs. They are large, Mr.
     Holmes--large beyond the belief of an ordinary man. I can make or
     break--and it is usually break. It wasn't individuals only. It was
     communities, cities, even nations. Business is a hard game, and the
     weak go to the wall. I played the game for all it was worth. I never
     squealed myself, and I never cared if the other fellow squealed. But
     she saw it different. I guess she was right. She believed and said
     that a fortune for one man that was more than he needed should not be
     built on ten thousand ruined men who were left without the means of
     life. That was how she saw it, and I guess she could see past the
     dollars to something that was more lasting. She found that I listened
     to what she said, and she believed she was serving the world by
     influencing my actions. So she stayed--and then this came along."

     "Can you throw any light upon that?"

     The Gold King paused for a minute or more, his head sunk in his
     hands, lost in deep thought.

     "It's very black against her. I can't deny that. And women lead an
     inward life and may do things beyond the judgment of a man. At first
     I was so rattled and taken aback that I was ready to think she had
     been led away in some extraordinary fashion that was clean against
     her usual nature. One explanation came into my head. I give it to
     you, Mr. Holmes, for what it is worth. There is no doubt that my wife
     was bitterly jealous. There is a soul-jealousy that can be as frantic
     as any body-jealousy, and though my wife had no cause--and I think
     she understood this--for the latter, she was aware that this English
     girl exerted an influence upon my mind and my acts that she herself
     never had. It was an influence for good, but that did not mend the
     matter. She was crazy with hatred, and the heat of the Amazon was
     always in her blood. She might have planned to murder Miss Dunbar--or
     we will say to threaten her with a gun and so frighten her into
     leaving us. Then there might have been a scuffle and the gun gone off
     and shot the woman who held it."

     "That possibility had already occurred to me," said Holmes. "Indeed,
     it is the only obvious alternative to deliberate murder."

     "But she utterly denies it."

     "Well, that is not final--is it? One can understand that a woman
     placed in so awful a position might hurry home still in her
     bewilderment holding the revolver. She might even throw it down among
     her clothes, hardly knowing what she was doing, and when it was found
     she might try to lie her way out by a total denial, since all
     explanation was impossible. What is against such a supposition?"

     "Miss Dunbar herself."

     "Well, perhaps."

     Holmes looked at his watch. "I have no doubt we can get the neces