our or more before Holmes came
     to a leaden coffin standing on end before the entrance to the vault.
     I heard his little cry of satisfaction and was aware from his hurried
     but purposeful movements that he had reached a goal. With his lens he
     was eagerly examining the edges of the heavy lid. Then he drew from
     his pocket a short jemmy, a box-opener, which he thrust into a chink,
     levering back the whole front, which seemed to be secured by only a
     couple of clamps. There was a rending, tearing sound as it gave way,
     but it had hardly hinged back and partly revealed the contents before
     we had an unforeseen interruption.

     Someone was walking in the chapel above. It was the firm, rapid step
     of one who came with a definite purpose and knew well the ground upon
     which he walked. A light streamed down the stairs, and an instant
     later the man who bore it was framed in the Gothic archway. He was a
     terrible figure, huge in stature and fierce in manner. A large
     stable-lantern which he held in front of him shone upward upon a
     strong, heavily moustached face and angry eyes, which glared round
     him into every recess of the vault, finally fixing themselves with a
     deadly stare upon my companion and myself.

     "Who the devil are you?" he thundered. "And what are you doing upon
     my property?" Then, as Holmes returned no answer, he took a couple of
     steps forward and raised a heavy stick which he carried. "Do you hear
     me?" he cried. "Who are you? What are you doing here?" His cudgel
     quivered in the air.

     But instead of shrinking Holmes advanced to meet him.

     "I also have a question to ask you, Sir Robert," he said in his
     sternest tone. "Who is this? And what is it doing here?"

     He turned and tore open the coffin-lid behind him. In the glare of
     the lantern I saw a body swathed in a sheet from head to foot, with
     dreadful, witch-like features, all nose and chin, projecting at one
     end, the dim, glazed eyes staring from a discoloured and crumbling
     face.

     The baronet had staggered back with a cry and supported himself
     against a stone sarcophagus.

     "How came you to know of this?" he cried. And then, with some return
     of his truculent manner: "What business is it of yours?"

     "My name is Sherlock Holmes," said my companion. "Possibly it is
     familiar to you. In any case, my business is that of every other good
     citizen--to uphold the law. It seems to me that you have much to
     answer for."

     Sir Robert glared for a moment, but Holmes's quiet voice and cool,
     assured manner had their effect.

     "'Fore God, Mr. Holmes, it's all right," said he. "Appearances are
     against me, I'll admit, but I could act no otherwise."

     "I should be happy to think so, but I fear your explanations must be
     before the police."

     Sir Robert shrugged his broad shoulders.

     "Well, if it must be, it must. Come up to the house and you can judge
     for yourself how the matter stands."

     A quarter of an hour later we found ourselves in what I judge, from
     the lines of polished barrels behind glass covers, to be the gun-room
     of the old house. It was comfortably furnished, and here Sir Robert
     left us for a few moments. When he returned he had two companions
     with him; the one, the florid young woman whom we had seen in the
     carriage; the other, a small rat-faced man with a disagreeably
     furtive manner. These two wore an appearance of utter bewilderment,
     which showed that the baronet had not yet had time to explain to them
     the turn events had taken.

     "There," said Sir Robert with a wave of his hand, "are Mr. and Mrs.
     Norlett. Mrs. Norlett, under her maiden name of Evans, has for some
     years been my sister's confidential maid. I have brought them here
     because I feel that my best course is to explain the true position to
     you, and they are the two people upon earth who can substantiate what
     I say."

     "Is this necessary, Sir Robert? Have you thought what you are doing?"
     cried the woman.

     "As to me, I entirely disclaim all responsibility," said her husband.

     Sir Robert gave him a glance of contempt. "I will take all
     responsibility," said he. "Now, Mr. Holmes, listen to a plain
     statement of the facts.

     "You have clearly gone pretty deeply into my affairs or I should not
     have found you where I did. Therefore, you know already, in all
     probability, that I am running a dark horse for the Derby and that
     everything depends upon my success. If I win, all is easy. If I
     lose--well, I dare not think of that!"

     "I understand the position," said Holmes.

     "I am dependent upon my sister, Lady Beatrice, for everything. But it
     is well known that her interest in the estate is for her own life
     only. For myself, I am deeply in the hands of the J