. The instrument with
     which this punishment had been inflicted was clearly flexible, for
     the long, angry weals curved round his shoulders and ribs. There was
     blood dripping down his chin, for he had bitten through his lower lip
     in the paroxysm of his agony. His drawn and distorted face told how
     terrible that agony had been.

     I was kneeling and Stackhurst standing by the body when a shadow fell
     across us, and we found that Ian Murdoch was by our side. Murdoch was
     the mathematical coach at the establishment, a tall, dark, thin man,
     so taciturn and aloof that none can be said to have been his friend.
     He seemed to live in some high, abstract region of surds and conic
     sections, with little to connect him with ordinary life. He was
     looked upon as an oddity by the students, and would have been their
     butt, but there was some strange outlandish blood in the man, which
     showed itself not only in his coal-black eyes and swarthy face but
     also in occasional outbreaks of temper, which could only be described
     as ferocious. On one occasion, being plagued by a little dog
     belonging to McPherson, he had caught the creature up and hurled it
     through the plate-glass window, an action for which Stackhurst would
     certainly have given him his dismissal had he not been a very
     valuable teacher. Such was the strange complex man who now appeared
     beside us. He seemed to be honestly shocked at the sight before him,
     though the incident of the dog may show that there was no great
     sympathy between the dead man and himself.

     "Poor fellow! Poor fellow! What can I do? How can I help?"

     "Were you with him? Can you tell us what has happened?"

     "No, no, I was late this morning. I was not on the beach at all. I
     have come straight from The Gables. What can I do?"

     "You can hurry to the police-station at Fulworth. Report the matter
     at once."

     Without a word he made off at top speed, and I proceeded to take the
     matter in hand, while Stackhurst, dazed at this tragedy, remained by
     the body. My first task naturally was to note who was on the beach.
     From the top of the path I could see the whole sweep of it, and it
     was absolutely deserted save that two or three dark figures could be
     seen far away moving towards the village of Fulworth. Having
     satisfied myself upon this point, I walked slowly down the path.
     There was clay or soft marl mixed with the chalk, and every here and
     there I saw the same footstep, both ascending and descending. No one
     else had gone down to the beach by this track that morning. At one
     place I observed the print of an open hand with the fingers towards
     the incline. This could only mean that poor McPherson had fallen as
     he ascended. There were rounded depressions, too, which suggested
     that he had come down upon his knees more than once. At the bottom of
     the path was the considerable lagoon left by the retreating tide. At
     the side of it McPherson had undressed, for there lay his towel on a
     rock. It was folded and dry, so that it would seem that, after all,
     he had never entered the water. Once or twice as I hunted round amid
     the hard shingle I came on little patches of sand where the print of
     his canvas shoe, and also of his naked foot, could be seen. The
     latter fact proved that he had made all ready to bathe, though the
     towel indicated that he had not actually done so.

     And here was the problem clearly defined--as strange a one as had
     ever confronted me. The man had not been on the beach more than a
     quarter of an hour at the most. Stackhurst had followed him from The
     Gables, so there could be no doubt about that. He had gone to bathe
     and had stripped, as the naked footsteps showed. Then he had suddenly
     huddled on his clothes again--they were all dishevelled and
     unfastened--and he had returned without bathing, or at any rate
     without drying himself. And the reason for his change of purpose had
     been that he had been scourged in some savage, inhuman fashion,
     tortured until he bit his lip through in his agony, and was left with
     only strength enough to crawl away and to die. Who had done this
     barbarous deed? There were, it is true, small grottos and caves in
     the base of the cliffs, but the low sun shone directly into them, and
     there was no place for concealment. Then, again, there were those
     distant figures on the beach. They seemed too far away to have been
     connected with the crime, and the broad lagoon in which McPherson had
     intended to bathe lay between him and them, lapping up to the rocks.
     On the sea two or three fishing-boats were at no great distance.
     Their occupants might be examined at our leisure. There were several
     roads for inquiry, but none which led to any very obvious goal.

    