by a third person. The
     following narrative is drawn from my own experience.

     It was a wild morning in October, and I observed as I was dressing
     how the last remaining leaves were being whirled from the solitary
     plane tree which graces the yard behind our house. I descended to
     breakfast prepared to find my companion in depressed spirits, for,
     like all great artists, he was easily impressed by his surroundings.
     On the contrary, I found that he had nearly finished his meal, and
     that his mood was particularly bright and joyous, with that somewhat
     sinister cheerfulness which was characteristic of his lighter
     moments.

     "You have a case, Holmes?" I remarked.

     "The faculty of deduction is certainly contagious, Watson," he
     answered. "It has enabled you to probe my secret. Yes, I have a case.
     After a month of trivialities and stagnation the wheels move once
     more."

     "Might I share it?"

     "There is little to share, but we may discuss it when you have
     consumed the two hard-boiled eggs with which our new cook has
     favoured us. Their condition may not be unconnected with the copy of
     the Family Herald which I observed yesterday upon the hall-table.
     Even so trivial a matter as cooking an egg demands an attention which
     is conscious of the passage of time and incompatible with the love
     romance in that excellent periodical."

     A quarter of an hour later the table had been cleared and we were
     face to face. He had drawn a letter from his pocket.

     "You have heard of Neil Gibson, the Gold King?" he said.

     "You mean the American Senator?"

     "Well, he was once Senator for some Western state, but is better
     known as the greatest gold-mining magnate in the world."

     "Yes, I know of him. He has surely lived in England for some time.
     His name is very familiar."

     "Yes, he bought a considerable estate in Hampshire some five years
     ago. Possibly you have already heard of the tragic end of his wife?"

     "Of course. I remember it now. That is why the name is familiar. But
     I really know nothing of the details."

     Holmes waved his hand towards some papers on a chair. "I had no idea
     that the case was coming my way or I should have had my extracts
     ready," said he. "The fact is that the problem, though exceedingly
     sensational, appeared to present no difficulty. The interesting
     personality of the accused does not obscure the clearness of the
     evidence. That was the view taken by the coroner's jury and also in
     the police-court proceedings. It is now referred to the Assizes at
     Winchester. I fear it is a thankless business. I can discover facts,
     Watson, but I cannot change them. Unless some entirely new and
     unexpected ones come to light I do not see what my client can hope
     for."

     "Your client?"

     "Ah, I forgot I had not told you. I am getting into your involved
     habit, Watson, of telling a story backward. You had best read this
     first."

     The letter which he handed to me, written in a bold, masterful hand,
     ran as follows:

     Claridge's Hotel
     October 3rd.
     Dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes:
     I can't see the best woman God ever made go to her death without
     doing all that is possible to save her. I can't explain things--I
     can't even try to explain them, but I know beyond all doubt that Miss
     Dunbar is innocent. You know the facts--who doesn't? It has been the
     gossip of the country. And never a voice raised for her! It's the
     damned injustice of it all that makes me crazy. That woman has a
     heart that wouldn't let her kill a fly. Well, I'll come at eleven
     to-morrow and see if you can get some ray of light in the dark. Maybe
     I have a clue and don't know it. Anyhow, all I know and all I have
     and all I am are for your use if only you can save her. If ever in
     your life you showed your powers, put them now into this case.
     Yours faithfully,
     J. Neil Gibson.

     "There you have it," said Sherlock Holmes, knocking out the ashes of
     his after-breakfast pipe and slowly refilling it. "That is the
     gentleman I await. As to the story, you have hardly time to master
     all these papers, so I must give it to you in a nutshell if you are
     to take an intelligent interest in the proceedings. This man is the
     greatest financial power in the world, and a man, as I understand, of
     most violent and formidable character. He married a wife, the victim
     of this tragedy, of whom I know nothing save that she was past her
     prime, which was the more unfortunate as a very attractive governess
     superintended the education of two young children. These are the
     three people concerned, and the scene is a grand old manor house, the
     centre of a historical English state. Then as to the tragedy. The
     wife was found in the grounds nearly half