s by this time not inconsiderable. Holmes made no allusion
     to the case until after we had deposited our suitcases at the ancient
     hostel of which he had spoken.

     "I think, Watson, that we can catch the professor just before lunch.
     He lectures at eleven and should have an interval at home."

     "What possible excuse have we for calling?"

     Holmes glanced at his notebook.

     "There was a period of excitement upon August 26th. We will assume
     that he is a little hazy as to what he does at such times. If we
     insist that we are there by appointment I think he will hardly
     venture to contradict us. Have you the effrontery necessary to put it
     through?"

     "We can but try."

     "Excellent, Watson! Compound of the Busy Bee and Excelsior. We can
     but try--the motto of the firm. A friendly native will surely guide
     us."

     Such a one on the back of a smart hansom swept us past a row of
     ancient colleges and, finally turning into a tree-lined drive, pulled
     up at the door of a charming house, girt round with lawns and covered
     with purple wisteria. Professor Presbury was certainly surrounded
     with every sign not only of comfort but of luxury. Even as we pulled
     up, a grizzled head appeared at the front window, and we were aware
     of a pair of keen eyes from under shaggy brows which surveyed us
     through large horn glasses. A moment later we were actually in his
     sanctum, and the mysterious scientist, whose vagaries had brought us
     from London, was standing before us. There was certainly no sign of
     eccentricity either in his manner or appearance, for he was a portly,
     large-featured man, grave, tall, and frock-coated, with the dignity
     of bearing which a lecturer needs. His eyes were his most remarkable
     feature, keen, observant, and clever to the verge of cunning.

     He looked at our cards. "Pray sit down, gentlemen. What can I do for
     you?"

     Mr. Holmes smiled amiably.

     "It was the question which I was about to put to you, Professor."

     "To me, sir!"

     "Possibly there is some mistake. I heard through a second person that
     Professor Presbury of Camford had need of my services."

     "Oh, indeed!" It seemed to me that there was a malicious sparkle in
     the intense gray eyes. "You heard that, did you? May I ask the name
     of your informant?"

     "I am sorry, Professor, but the matter was rather confidential. If I
     have made a mistake there is no harm done. I can only express my
     regret."

     "Not at all. I should wish to go further into this matter. It
     interests me. Have you any scrap of writing, any letter or telegram,
     to bear out your assertion?"

     "No, I have not."

     "I presume that you do not go so far as to assert that I summoned
     you?"

     "I would rather answer no questions," said Holmes.

     "No, I dare say not," said the professor with asperity. "However,
     that particular one can be answered very easily without your aid."

     He walked across the room to the bell. Our London friend, Mr.
     Bennett, answered the call.

     "Come in, Mr. Bennett. These two gentlemen have come from London
     under the impression that they have been summoned. You handle all my
     correspondence. Have you a note of anything going to a person named
     Holmes?"

     "No, sir," Bennett answered with a flush.

     "That is conclusive," said the professor, glaring angrily at my
     companion. "Now, sir"--he leaned forward with his two hands upon the
     table--"it seems to me that your position is a very questionable
     one."

     Holmes shrugged his shoulders.

     "I can only repeat that I am sorry that we have made a needless
     intrusion."

     "Hardly enough, Mr. Holmes!" the old man cried in a high screaming
     voice, with extraordinary malignancy upon his face. He got between us
     and the door as he spoke, and he shook his two hands at us with
     furious passion. "You can hardly get out of it so easily as that."
     His face was convulsed, and he grinned and gibbered at us in his
     senseless rage. I am convinced that we should have had to fight our
     way out of the room if Mr. Bennett had not intervened.

     "My dear Professor," he cried, "consider your position! Consider the
     scandal at the university! Mr. Holmes is a well-known man. You cannot
     possibly treat him with such discourtesy."

     Sulkily our host--if I may call him so--cleared the path to the door.
     We were glad to find ourselves outside the house and in the quiet of
     the tree-lined drive. Holmes seemed greatly amused by the episode.

     "Our learned friend's nerves are somewhat out of order," said he.
     "Perhaps our intrusion was a little crude, and yet we have gained
     that personal contact which I desired. But, dear me, Watson, he is
     surely at our heels. The villain still pursues us."

     There were the sounds 