 emerged. There
     was no mistaking that tall, angular, straggling figure. It was Ian
     Murdoch, the mathematician. A moment later we confronted him upon the
     road.

     "Hullo!" said Stackhurst. The man nodded, gave us a sideways glance
     from his curious dark eyes, and would have passed us, but his
     principal pulled him up.

     "What were you doing there?" he asked.

     Murdoch's face flushed with anger. "I am your subordinate, sir, under
     your roof. I am not aware that I owe you any account of my private
     actions."

     Stackhurst's nerves were near the surface after all he had endured.
     Otherwise, perhaps, he would have waited. Now he lost his temper
     completely.

     "In the circumstances your answer is pure impertinence, Mr. Murdoch."

     "Your own question might perhaps come under the same heading."

     "This is not the first time that I have had to overlook your
     insubordinate ways. It will certainly be the last. You will kindly
     make fresh arrangements for your future as speedily as you can."

     "I had intended to do so. I have lost to-day the only person who made
     The Gables habitable."

     He strode off upon his way, while Stackhurst, with angry eyes, stood
     glaring after him. "Is he not an impossible, intolerable man?" he
     cried.

     The one thing that impressed itself forcibly upon my mind was that
     Mr. Ian Murdoch was taking the first chance to open a path of escape
     from the scene of the crime. Suspicion, vague and nebulous, was now
     beginning to take outline in my mind. Perhaps the visit to the
     Bellamys might throw some further light upon the matter. Stackhurst
     pulled himself together, and we went forward to the house.

     Mr. Bellamy proved to be a middle-aged man with a flaming red beard.
     He seemed to be in a very angry mood, and his face was soon as florid
     as his hair.

     "No, sir, I do not desire any particulars. My son here"--indicating a
     powerful young man, with a heavy, sullen face, in the corner of the
     sitting-room--"is of one mind with me that Mr. McPherson's attentions
     to Maud were insulting. Yes, sir, the word 'marriage' was never
     mentioned, and yet there were letters and meetings, and a great deal
     more of which neither of us could approve. She has no mother, and we
     are her only guardians. We are determined--"

     But the words were taken from his mouth by the appearance of the lady
     herself. There was no gainsaying that she would have graced any
     assembly in the world. Who could have imagined that so rare a flower
     would grow from such a root and in such an atmosphere? Women have
     seldom been an attraction to me, for my brain has always governed my
     heart, but I could not look upon her perfect clear-cut face, with all
     the soft freshness of the downlands in her delicate colouring,
     without realizing that no young man would cross her path unscathed.
     Such was the girl who had pushed open the door and stood now,
     wide-eyed and intense, in front of Harold Stackhurst.

     "I know already that Fitzroy is dead," she said. "Do not be afraid to
     tell me the particulars."

     "This other gentleman of yours let us know the news," explained the
     father.

     "There is no reason why my sister should be brought into the matter,"
     growled the younger man.

     The sister turned a sharp, fierce look upon him. "This is my
     business, William. Kindly leave me to manage it in my own way. By all
     accounts there has been a crime committed. If I can help to show who
     did it, it is the least I can do for him who is gone."

     She listened to a short account from my companion, with a composed
     concentration which showed me that she possessed strong character as
     well as great beauty. Maud Bellamy will always remain in my memory as
     a most complete and remarkable woman. It seems that she already knew
     me by sight, for she turned to me at the end.

     "Bring them to justice, Mr. Holmes. You have my sympathy and my help,
     whoever they may be." It seemed to me that she glanced defiantly at
     her father and brother as she spoke.

     "Thank you," said I. "I value a woman's instinct in such matters. You
     use the word 'they.' You think that more than one was concerned?"

     "I knew Mr. McPherson well enough to be aware that he was a brave and
     a strong man. No single person could ever have inflicted such an
     outrage upon him."

     "Might I have one word with you alone?"

     "I tell you, Maud, not to mix yourself up in the matter," cried her
     father angrily.

     She looked at me helplessly. "What can I do?"

     "The whole world will know the facts presently, so there can be no
     harm if I discuss them here," said I. "I should have preferred
     privacy, but if your father will not allow it he must share the
     deliberations." Then I spoke of the note 