 had been brought, no doubt, by the
     Peruvian lady upstairs. Holmes rose, with that quick curiosity which
     sprang from his eager mind, and examined them with some care. He
     returned with his eyes full of thought.

     "Hullo!" he cried. "Hullo!"

     A spaniel had lain in a basket in the corner. It came slowly forward
     towards its master, walking with difficulty. Its hind legs moved
     irregularly and its tail was on the ground. It licked Ferguson's
     hand.

     "What is it, Mr. Holmes?"

     "The dog. What's the matter with it?"

     "That's what puzzled the vet. A sort of paralysis.  Spinal
     meningitis, he thought. But it is passing. He'll be all right
     soon--won't you, Carlo?"

     A shiver of assent passed through the drooping tail. The dog's
     mournful eyes passed from one of us to the other. He knew that we
     were discussing his case.

     "Did it come on suddenly?"

     "In a single night."

     "How long ago?"

     "It may have been four months ago."

     "Very remarkable. Very suggestive."

     "What do you see in it, Mr. Holmes?"

     "A confirmation of what I had already thought."

     "For God's sake, what do you think, Mr. Holmes? It may be a mere
     intellectual puzzle to you, but it is life and death to me! My wife a
     would-be murderer--my child in constant danger! Don't play with me,
     Mr. Holmes.  It is too terribly serious."

     The big Rugby three-quarter was trembling all over. Holmes put his
     hand soothingly upon his arm.

     "I fear that there is pain for you, Mr. Ferguson, whatever the
     solution may be," said he. "I would spare you all I can. I cannot say
     more for the instant, but before I leave this house I hope I may have
     something definite."

     "Please God you may! If you will excuse me, gentlemen, I will go up
     to my wife's room and see if there has been any change."

     He was away some minutes, during which Holmes resumed his examination
     of the curiosities upon the wall. When our host returned it was clear
     from his downcast face that he had made no progress. He brought with
     him a tall, slim, brown-faced girl.

     "The tea is ready, Dolores," said Ferguson.  "See that your mistress
     has everything she can wish."

     "She verra ill," cried the girl, looking with indignant eyes at her
     master. "She no ask for food. She verra ill. She need doctor. I
     frightened stay alone with her without doctor."

     Ferguson looked at me with a question in his eyes.

     "I should be so glad if I could be of use."

     "Would your mistress see Dr. Watson?"

     "I take him. I no ask leave. She needs doctor."

     "Then I'll come with you at once."

     I followed the girl, who was quivering with strong emotion, up the
     staircase and down an ancient corridor. At the end was an
     iron-clamped and massive door. It struck me as I looked at it that if
     Ferguson tried to force his way to his wife he would find it no easy
     matter. The girl drew a key from her pocket, and the heavy oaken
     planks creaked upon their old hinges. I passed in and she swiftly
     followed, fastening the door behind her.

     On the bed a woman was lying who was clearly in a high fever.  She
     was only half conscious, but as I entered she raised a pair of
     frightened but beautiful eyes and glared at me in apprehension.
     Seeing a stranger, she appeared to be relieved and sank back with a
     sigh upon the pillow. I stepped up to her with a few reassuring
     words, and she lay still while I took her pulse and temperature. Both
     were high, and yet my impression was that the condition was rather
     that of mental and nervous excitement than of any actual seizure.

     "She lie like that one day, two day. I 'fraid she die," said the
     girl.

     The woman turned her flushed and handsome face towards me.

     "Where is my husband?"

     "He is below and would wish to see you."

     "I will not see him. I will not see him." Then she seemed to wander
     off into delirium. "A fiend! A fiend! Oh, what shall I do with this
     devil?"

     "Can I help you in any way?"

     "No. No one can help. It is finished. All is destroyed.  Do what I
     will, all is destroyed."

     The woman must have some strange delusion. I could not see honest Bob
     Ferguson in the character of fiend or devil.

     "Madame," I said, "your husband loves you dearly. He is deeply
     grieved at this happening."

     Again she turned on me those glorious eyes.

     "He loves me. Yes. But do I not love him? Do I not love him even to
     sacrifice myself rather than break his dear heart? That is how I love
     him. And yet he could think of me--he could speak of me so."

     "He is full of grief, but he cannot understand."

     "No, he cannot understand. But he should trust."

     "Will you not see him?" I suggested.

     "No, no, I cannot forget those terrible words nor the l