 When I at last returned to the body I found that a little group of
     wondering folk had gathered round it. Stackhurst was, of course,
     still there, and Ian Murdoch had just arrived with Anderson, the
     village constable, a big, ginger-moustached man of the slow, solid
     Sussex breed--a breed which covers much good sense under a heavy,
     silent exterior. He listened to everything, took note of all we said,
     and finally drew me aside.

     "I'd be glad of your advice, Mr. Holmes. This is a big thing for me
     to handle, and I'll hear of it from Lewes if I go wrong."

     I advised him to send for his immediate superior, and for a doctor;
     also to allow nothing to be moved, and as few fresh footmarks as
     possible to be made, until they came. In the meantime I searched the
     dead man's pockets. There were his handkerchief, a large knife, and a
     small folding card-case. From this projected a slip of paper, which I
     unfolded and handed to the constable. There was written on it in a
     scrawling, feminine hand:

     I will be there, you may be sure.
     Maudie.

     It read like a love affair, an assignation, though when and where
     were a blank. The constable replaced it in the card-case and returned
     it with the other things to the pockets of the Burberry. Then, as
     nothing more suggested itself, I walked back to my house for
     breakfast, having first arranged that the base of the cliffs should
     be thoroughly searched.

     Stackhurst was round in an hour or two to tell me that the body had
     been removed to The Gables, where the inquest would be held. He
     brought with him some serious and definite news. As I expected,
     nothing had been found in the small caves below the cliff, but he had
     examined the papers in McPherson's desk, and there were several which
     showed an intimate correspondence with a certain Miss Maud Bellamy,
     of Fulworth. We had then established the identity of the writer of
     the note.

     "The police have the letters," he explained. "I could not bring them.
     But there is no doubt that it was a serious love affair. I see no
     reason, however, to connect it with that horrible happening save,
     indeed, that the lady had made an appointment with him."

     "But hardly at a bathing-pool which all of you were in the habit of
     using," I remarked.

     "It is mere chance," said he, "that several of the students were not
     with McPherson."

     "Was it mere chance?"

     Stackhurst knit his brows in thought.

     "Ian Murdoch held them back," said he. "He would insist upon some
     algebraic demonstration before breakfast. Poor chap, he is dreadfully
     cut up about it all."

     "And yet I gather that they were not friends."

     "At one time they were not. But for a year or more Murdoch has been
     as near to McPherson as he ever could be to anyone. He is not of a
     very sympathetic disposition by nature."

     "So I understand. I seem to remember your telling me once about a
     quarrel over the ill-usage of a dog."

     "That blew over all right."

     "But left some vindictive feeling, perhaps."

     "No, no, I am sure they were real friends."

     "Well, then, we must explore the matter of the girl. Do you know
     her?"

     "Everyone knows her. She is the beauty of the neighbourhood--a real
     beauty, Holmes, who would draw attention everywhere. I knew that
     McPherson was attracted by her, but I had no notion that it had gone
     so far as these letters would seem to indicate."

     "But who is she?"

     "She is the daughter of old Tom Bellamy, who owns all the boats and
     bathing-cots at Fulworth. He was a fisherman to start with, but is
     now a man of some substance. He and his son William run the
     business."

     "Shall we walk into Fulworth and see them?"

     "On what pretext?"

     "Oh, we can easily find a pretext. After all, this poor man did not
     ill-use himself in this outrageous way. Some human hand was on the
     handle of that scourge, if indeed it was a scourge which inflicted
     the injuries. His circle of acquaintances in this lonely place was
     surely limited. Let us follow it up in every direction and we can
     hardly fail to come upon the motive, which in turn should lead us to
     the criminal."

     It would have been a pleasant walk across the thyme-scented downs had
     our minds not been poisoned by the tragedy we had witnessed. The
     village of Fulworth lies in a hollow curving in a semicircle round
     the bay. Behind the old-fashioned hamlet several modern houses have
     been built upon the rising ground. It was to one of these that
     Stackhurst guided me.

     "That's The Haven, as Bellamy called it. The one with the corner
     tower and slate roof. Not bad for a man who started with nothing
     but-- By Jove, look at that!"

     The garden gate of The Haven had opened and a man had