  "A printing press--a counterfeiter's outfit," said Holmes.

     "Yes, sir," said our prisoner, staggering slowly to his feet and then
     sinking into the chair. "The greatest counterfeiter London ever saw.
     That's Prescott's machine, and those bundles on the table are two
     thousand of Prescott's notes worth a hundred each and fit to pass
     anywhere. Help yourselves, gentlemen. Call it a deal and let me beat
     it."

     Holmes laughed.

     "We don't do things like that, Mr. Evans. There is no bolt-hole for
     you in this country. You shot this man Prescott, did you not?"

     "Yes, sir, and got five years for it, though it was he who pulled on
     me. Five years--when I should have had a medal the size of a soup
     plate. No living man could tell a Prescott from a Bank of England,
     and if I hadn't put him out he would have flooded London with them. I
     was the only one in the world who knew where he made them. Can you
     wonder that I wanted to get to the place? And can you wonder that
     when I found this crazy boob of a bug-hunter with the queer name
     squatting right on the top of it, and never quitting his room, I had
     to do the best I could to shift him? Maybe I would have been wiser if
     I had put him away. It would have been easy enough, but I'm a
     soft-hearted guy that can't begin shooting unless the other man has a
     gun also. But say, Mr. Holmes, what have I done wrong, anyhow? I've
     not used this plant. I've not hurt this old stiff. Where do you get
     me?"

     "Only attempted murder, so far as I can see," said Holmes. "But
     that's not our job. They take that at the next stage. What we wanted
     at present was just your sweet self. Please give the Yard a call,
     Watson. It won't be entirely unexpected."

     So those were the facts about Killer Evans and his remarkable
     invention of the three Garridebs. We heard later that our poor old
     friend never got over the shock of his dissipated dreams. When his
     castle in the air fell down, it buried him beneath the ruins. He was
     last heard of at a nursing-home in Brixton. It was a glad day at the
     Yard when the Prescott outfit was discovered, for, though they knew
     that it existed, they had never been able, after the death of the
     man, to find out where it was. Evans had indeed done great service
     and caused several worthy C. I. D. men to sleep the sounder, for the
     counterfeiter stands in a class by himself as a public danger. They
     would willingly have subscribed to that soup-plate medal of which the
     criminal had spoken, but an unappreciative bench took a less
     favourable view, and the Killer returned to those shades from which
     he had just emerged.






                           THE PROBLEM OF THOR BRIDGE

     Somewhere in the vaults of the bank of Cox and Co., at Charing Cross,
     there is a travel-worn and battered tin dispatch-box with my name,
     John H. Watson, M.D., Late Indian Army, painted upon the lid. It is
     crammed with papers, nearly all of which are records of cases to
     illustrate the curious problems which Mr. Sherlock Holmes had at
     various times to examine. Some, and not the least interesting, were
     complete failures, and as such will hardly bear narrating, since no
     final explanation is forthcoming. A problem without a solution may
     interest the student, but can hardly fail to annoy the casual reader.
     Among these unfinished tales is that of Mr. James Phillimore, who,
     stepping back into his own house to get his umbrella, was never more
     seen in this world. No less remarkable is that of the cutter Alicia,
     which sailed one spring morning into a small patch of mist from where
     she never again emerged, nor was anything further ever heard of
     herself and her crew. A third case worthy of note is that of Isadora
     Persano, the well-known journalist and duellist, who was found stark
     staring mad with a match box in front of him which contained a
     remarkable worm said to be unknown to science. Apart from these
     unfathomed cases, there are some which involve the secrets of private
     families to an extent which would mean consternation in many exalted
     quarters if it were thought possible that they might find their way
     into print. I need not say that such a breach of confidence is
     unthinkable, and that these records will be separated and destroyed
     now that my friend has time to turn his energies to the matter. There
     remain a considerable residue of cases of greater or less interest
     which I might have edited before had I not feared to give the public
     a surfeit which might react upon the reputation of the man whom above
     all others I revere. In some I was myself concerned and can speak as
     an eye-witness, while in others I was either not present or played so
     small a part that they could only be told as 