ook upon his
     face. I will not see him. Go now. You can do nothing for me. Tell him
     only one thing. I want my child. I have a right to my child. That is
     the only message I can send him." She turned her face to the wall and
     would say no more.

     I returned to the room downstairs, where Ferguson and Holmes still
     sat by the fire. Ferguson listened moodily to my account of the
     interview.

     "How can I send her the child?" he said. "How do I know what strange
     impulse might come upon her? How can I ever forget how she rose from
     beside it with its blood upon her lips?" He shuddered at the
     recollection.  "The child is safe with Mrs. Mason, and there he must
     remain."

     A smart maid, the only modern thing which we had seen in the house,
     had brought in some tea. As she was serving it the door opened and a
     youth entered the room. He was a remarkable lad, pale-faced and
     fair-haired, with excitable light blue eyes which blazed into a
     sudden flame of emotion and joy as they rested upon his father.  He
     rushed forward and threw his arms round his neck with the abandon of
     a loving girl.

     "Oh, daddy," he cried, "I did not know that you were due yet. I
     should have been here to meet you. Oh, I am so glad to see you!"

     Ferguson gently disengaged himself from the embrace with some little
     show of embarrassment.

     "Dear old chap," said he, patting the flaxen head with a very tender
     hand. "I came early because my friends, Mr. Holmes and Dr. Watson,
     have been persuaded to come down and spend an evening with us."

     "Is that Mr. Holmes, the detective?"

     "Yes."

     The youth looked at us with a very penetrating and, as it seemed to
     me, unfriendly gaze.

     "What about your other child, Mr. Ferguson?" asked Holmes. "Might we
     make the acquaintance of the baby?"

     "Ask Mrs. Mason to bring baby down," said Ferguson.  The boy went off
     with a curious, shambling gait which told my surgical eyes that he
     was suffering from a weak spine. Presently he returned, and behind
     him came a tall, gaunt woman bearing in her arms a very beautiful
     child, dark-eyed, golden-haired, a wonderful mixture of the Saxon and
     the Latin. Ferguson was evidently devoted to it, for he took it into
     his arms and fondled it most tenderly.

     "Fancy anyone having the heart to hurt him," he muttered as he
     glanced down at the small, angry red pucker upon the cherub throat.

     It was at this moment that I chanced to glance at Holmes and saw a
     most singular intentness in his expression. His face was as set as if
     it had been carved out of old ivory, and his eyes, which had glanced
     for a moment at father and child, were now fixed with eager curiosity
     upon something at the other side of the room.  Following his gaze I
     could only guess that he was looking out through the window at the
     melancholy, dripping garden. It is true that a shutter had half
     closed outside and obstructed the view, but none the less it was
     certainly at the window that Holmes was fixing his concentrated
     attention. Then he smiled, and his eyes came back to the baby. On its
     chubby neck there was this small puckered mark. Without speaking,
     Holmes examined it with care. Finally he shook one of the dimpled
     fists which waved in front of him.

     "Good-bye, little man. You have made a strange start in life. Nurse,
     I should wish to have a word with you in private."

     He took her aside and spoke earnestly for a few minutes. I only heard
     the last words, which were: "Your anxiety will soon, I hope, be set
     at rest." The woman, who seemed to be a sour, silent kind of
     creature, withdrew with the child.

     "What is Mrs. Mason like?" asked Holmes.

     "Not very prepossessing externally, as you can see, but a heart of
     gold, and devoted to the child."

     "Do you like her, Jack?" Holmes turned suddenly upon the boy. His
     expressive mobile face shadowed over, and he shook his head.

     "Jacky has very strong likes and dislikes," said Ferguson, putting
     his arm round the boy. "Luckily I am one of his likes."

     The boy cooed and nestled his head upon his father's breast. Ferguson
     gently disengaged him.

     "Run away, little Jacky," said he, and he watched his son with loving
     eyes until he disappeared. "Now, Mr. Holmes," he continued when the
     boy was gone, "I really feel that I have brought you on a fool's
     errand, for what can you possibly do save give me your sympathy? It
     must be an exceedingly delicate and complex affair from your point of
     view."

     "It is certainly delicate," said my friend with an amused smile, "but
     I have not been struck up to now with its complexity. It has been a
     case for intellectual deduction, but when this original intellectual
     deduction is confirmed point by po