 assistant."

     "As you like, Mr. Holmes. You will, I am sure, understand my having
     some reserves in the matter."

     "You will appreciate it, Watson, when I tell you that this gentleman,
     Mr. Trevor Bennett, is professional assistant to the great scientist,
     lives under his roof, and is engaged to his only daughter. Certainly
     we must agree that the professor has every claim upon his loyalty and
     devotion. But it may best be shown by taking the necessary steps to
     clear up this strange mystery."

     "I hope so, Mr. Holmes. That is my one object. Does Dr. Watson know
     the situation?"

     "I have not had time to explain it."

     "Then perhaps I had better go over the ground again before explaining
     some fresh developments."

     "I will do so myself," said Holmes, "in order to show that I have the
     events in their due order. The professor, Watson, is a man of
     European reputation. His life has been academic. There has never been
     a breath of scandal. He is a widower with one daughter, Edith. He is,
     I gather, a man of very virile and positive, one might almost say
     combative, character. So the matter stood until a very few months
     ago.

     "Then the current of his life was broken. He is sixty-one years of
     age, but he became engaged to the daughter of Professor Morphy, his
     colleague in the chair of comparative anatomy. It was not, as I
     understand, the reasoned courting of an elderly man but rather the
     passionate frenzy of youth, for no one could have shown himself a
     more devoted lover. The lady, Alice Morphy, was a very perfect girl
     both in mind and body, so that there was every excuse for the
     professor's infatuation. None the less, it did not meet with full
     approval in his own family."

     "We thought it rather excessive," said our visitor.

     "Exactly. Excessive and a little violent and unnatural. Professor
     Presbury was rich, however, and there was no objection upon the part
     of the father. The daughter, however, had other views, and there were
     already several candidates for her hand, who, if they were less
     eligible from a worldly point of view, were at least more of an age.
     The girl seemed to like the professor in spite of his eccentricities.
     It was only age which stood in the way.

     "About this time a little mystery suddenly clouded the normal routine
     of the professor's life. He did what he had never done before. He
     left home and gave no indication where he was going. He was away a
     fortnight and returned looking rather travel-worn. He made no
     allusion to where he had been, although he was usually the frankest
     of men. It chanced, however, that our client here, Mr. Bennett,
     received a letter from a fellow-student in Prague, who said that he
     was glad to have seen Professor Presbury there, although he had not
     been able to talk to him. Only in this way did his own household
     learn where he had been.

     "Now comes the point. From that time onward a curious change came
     over the professor. He became furtive and sly. Those around him had
     always the feeling that he was not the man that they had known, but
     that he was under some shadow which had darkened his higher
     qualities. His intellect was not affected. His lectures were as
     brilliant as ever. But always there was something new, something
     sinister and unexpected. His daughter, who was devoted to him, tried
     again and again to resume the old relations and to penetrate this
     mask which her father seemed to have put on. You, sir, as I
     understand, did the same--but all was in vain. And now, Mr. Bennett,
     tell in your own words the incident of the letters."

     "You must understand, Dr. Watson, that the professor had no secrets
     from me. If I were his son or his younger brother I could not have
     more completely enjoyed his confidence. As his secretary I handled
     every paper which came to him, and I opened and subdivided his
     letters. Shortly after his return all this was changed. He told me
     that certain letters might come to him from London which would be
     marked by a cross under the stamp. These were to be set aside for his
     own eyes only. I may say that several of these did pass through my
     hands, that they had the E. C. mark, and were in an illiterate
     handwriting. If he answered them at all the answers did not pass
     through my hands nor into the letter-basket in which our
     correspondence was collected."

     "And the box," said Holmes.

     "Ah, yes, the box. The professor brought back a little wooden box
     from his travels. It was the one thing which suggested a Continental
     tour, for it was one of those quaint carved things which one
     associates with Germany. This he placed in his instrument cupboard.
     One day, in looking for a canula, I took up the box. To my 