 a mile from the house, late
     at night, clad in her dinner dress, with a shawl over her shoulders
     and a revolver bullet through her brain. No weapon was found near her
     and there was no local clue as to the murder. No weapon near her,
     Watson--mark that! The crime seems to have been committed late in the
     evening, and the body was found by a game-keeper about eleven
     o'clock, when it was examined by the police and by a doctor before
     being carried up to the house. Is this too condensed, or can you
     follow it clearly?"

     "It is all very clear. But why suspect the governess?"

     "Well, in the first place there is some very direct evidence. A
     revolver with one discharged chamber and a calibre which corresponded
     with the bullet was found on the floor of her wardrobe." His eyes
     fixed and he repeated in broken words,
     "On--the--floor--of--her--wardrobe." Then he sank into silence, and I
     saw that some train of thought had been set moving which I should be
     foolish to interrupt. Suddenly with a start he emerged into brisk
     life once more. "Yes, Watson, it was found. Pretty damning, eh? So
     the two juries thought. Then the dead woman had a note upon her
     making an appointment at that very place and signed by the governess.
     How's that? Finally there is the motive. Senator Gibson is an
     attractive person. If his wife dies, who more likely to succeed her
     than the young lady who had already by all accounts received pressing
     attentions from her employer? Love, fortune, power, all depending
     upon one middle-aged life. Ugly, Watson--very ugly!"

     "Yes, indeed, Holmes."

     "Nor could she prove an alibi. On the contrary, she had to admit that
     she was down near Thor Bridge--that was the scene of the
     tragedy--about that hour. She couldn't deny it, for some passing
     villager had seen her there."

     "That really seems final."

     "And yet, Watson--and yet! This bridge--a single broad span of stone
     with balustraded sides--carries the drive over the narrowest part of
     a long, deep, reed-girt sheet of water. Thor Mere it is called. In
     the mouth of the bridge lay the dead woman. Such are the main facts.
     But here, if I mistake not, is our client, considerably before his
     time."

     Billy had opened the door, but the name which he announced was an
     unexpected one. Mr. Marlow Bates was a stranger to both of us. He was
     a thin, nervous wisp of a man with frightened eyes and a twitching,
     hesitating manner--a man whom my own professional eye would judge to
     be on the brink of an absolute nervous breakdown.

     "You seem agitated, Mr. Bates," said Holmes. "Pray sit down. I fear I
     can only give you a short time, for I have an appointment at eleven."

     "I know you have," our visitor gasped, shooting out short sentences
     like a man who is out of breath. "Mr. Gibson is coming. Mr. Gibson is
     my employer. I am manager of his estate. Mr. Holmes, he is a
     villain--an infernal villain."

     "Strong language, Mr. Bates."

     "I have to be emphatic, Mr. Holmes, for the time is so limited. I
     would not have him find me here for the world. He is almost due now.
     But I was so situated that I could not come earlier. His secretary,
     Mr. Ferguson, only told me this morning of his appointment with you."

     "And you are his manager?"

     "I have given him notice. In a couple of weeks I shall have shaken
     off his accursed slavery. A hard man, Mr. Holmes, hard to all about
     him. Those public charities are a screen to cover his private
     iniquities. But his wife was his chief victim. He was brutal to
     her--yes, sir, brutal! How she came by her death I do not know, but I
     am sure that he had made her life a misery to her. She was a creature
     of the tropics, a Brazilian by birth, as no doubt you know."

     "No, it had escaped me."

     "Tropical by birth and tropical by nature. A child of the sun and of
     passion. She had loved him as such women can love, but when her own
     physical charms had faded--I am told that they once were great--there
     was nothing to hold him. We all liked her and felt for her and hated
     him for the way that he treated her. But he is plausible and cunning.
     That is all I have to say to you. Don't take him at his face value.
     There is more behind. Now I'll go. No, no, don't detain me! He is
     almost due."

     With a frightened look at the clock our strange visitor literally ran
     to the door and disappeared.

     "Well! Well!" said Holmes after an interval of silence. "Mr. Gibson
     seems to have a nice loyal household. But the warning is a useful
     one, and now we can only wait till the man himself appears."

     Sharp at the hour we heard a heavy step upon the stairs, and the
     famous millionaire was shown into the room. As I looked upon him I
     understood n