 would represent where the meshes crossed each other."

     "A most ingenious comparison. Or shall we say a very stiff
     cat-o'-nine-tails with small hard knots upon it?"

     "By Jove, Mr. Holmes, I think you have hit it."

     "Or there may be some very different cause, Mr. Bardle. But your case
     is far too weak for an arrest. Besides, we have those last words--the
     'Lion's Mane.'"

     "I have wondered whether Ian--"

     "Yes, I have considered that. If the second word had borne any
     resemblance to Murdoch--but it did not. He gave it almost in a
     shriek. I am sure that it was 'Mane.'"

     "Have you no alternative, Mr. Holmes?"

     "Perhaps I have. But I do not care to discuss it until there is
     something more solid to discuss."

     "And when will that be?"

     "In an hour--possibly less."

     The inspector rubbed his chin and looked at me with dubious eyes.

     "I wish I could see what was in your mind, Mr. Holmes. Perhaps it's
     those fishing-boats."

     "No, no, they were too far out."

     "Well, then, is it Bellamy and that big son of his? They were not too
     sweet upon Mr. McPherson. Could they have done him a mischief?"

     "No, no, you won't draw me until I am ready," said I with a smile.
     "Now, Inspector, we each have our own work to do. Perhaps if you were
     to meet me here at midday--"

     So far we had got when there came the tremendous interruption which
     was the beginning of the end.

     My outer door was flung open, there were blundering footsteps in the
     passage, and Ian Murdoch staggered into the room, pallid,
     dishevelled, his clothes in wild disorder, clawing with his bony
     hands at the furniture to hold himself erect. "Brandy! Brandy!" he
     gasped, and fell groaning upon the sofa.

     He was not alone. Behind him came Stackhurst, hatless and panting,
     almost as distrait as his companion.

     "Yes, yes, brandy!" he cried. "The man is at his last gasp. It was
     all I could do to bring him here. He fainted twice upon the way."

     Half a tumbler of the raw spirit brought about a wondrous change. He
     pushed himself up on one arm and swung his coat from his shoulders.
     "For God's sake, oil, opium, morphia!" he cried. "Anything to ease
     this infernal agony!"

     The inspector and I cried out at the sight. There, crisscrossed upon
     the man's naked shoulder, was the same strange reticulated pattern of
     red, inflamed lines which had been the death-mark of Fitzroy
     McPherson.

     The pain was evidently terrible and was more than local, for the
     sufferer's breathing would stop for a time, his face would turn
     black, and then with loud gasps he would clap his hand to his heart,
     while his brow dropped beads of sweat. At any moment he might die.
     More and more brandy was poured down his throat, each fresh dose
     bringing him back to life. Pads of cotton-wool soaked in salad-oil
     seemed to take the agony from the strange wounds. At last his head
     fell heavily upon the cushion. Exhausted Nature had taken refuge in
     its last storehouse of vitality. It was half a sleep and half a
     faint, but at least it was ease from pain.

     To question him had been impossible, but the moment we were assured
     of his condition Stackhurst turned upon me.

     "My God!" he cried, "what is it, Holmes? What is it?"

     "Where did you find him?"

     "Down on the beach. Exactly where poor McPherson met his end. If this
     man's heart had been weak as McPherson's was, he would not be here
     now. More than once I thought he was gone as I brought him up. It was
     too far to The Gables, so I made for you."

     "Did you see him on the beach?"

     "I was walking on the cliff when I heard his cry. He was at the edge
     of the water, reeling about like a drunken man. I ran down, threw
     some clothes about him, and brought him up. For heaven's sake,
     Holmes, use all the powers you have and spare no pains to lift the
     curse from this place, for life is becoming unendurable. Can you,
     with all your world-wide reputation, do nothing for us?"

     "I think I can, Stackhurst. Come with me now! And you, Inspector,
     come along! We will see if we cannot deliver this murderer into your
     hands."

     Leaving the unconscious man in the charge of my housekeeper, we all
     three went down to the deadly lagoon. On the shingle there was piled
     a little heap of towels and clothes left by the stricken man. Slowly
     I walked round the edge of the water, my comrades in Indian file
     behind me. Most of the pool was quite shallow, but under the cliff
     where the beach was hollowed out it was four or five feet deep. It
     was to this part that a swimmer would naturally go, for it formed a
     beautiful pellucid green pool as clear as crystal. A line of rocks
     lay above it at the base of the cliff, and along this I led the way,
 