    peering eagerly into the depths beneath me. I had reached the deepest
     and stillest pool when my eyes caught that for which they were
     searching, and I burst into a shout of triumph.

     "Cyanea!" I cried. "Cyanea! Behold the Lion's Mane!"

     The strange object at which I pointed did indeed look like a tangled
     mass torn from the mane of a lion. It lay upon a rocky shelf some
     three feet under the water, a curious waving, vibrating, hairy
     creature with streaks of silver among its yellow tresses. It pulsated
     with a slow, heavy dilation and contraction.

     "It has done mischief enough. Its day is over!" I cried. "Help me,
     Stackhurst! Let us end the murderer forever."

     There was a big boulder just above the ledge, and we pushed it until
     it fell with a tremendous splash into the water. When the ripples had
     cleared we saw that it had settled upon the ledge below. One flapping
     edge of yellow membrane showed that our victim was beneath it. A
     thick oily scum oozed out from below the stone and stained the water
     round, rising slowly to the surface.

     "Well, this gets me!" cried the inspector. "What was it, Mr. Holmes?
     I'm born and bred in these parts, but I never saw such a thing. It
     don't belong to Sussex."

     "Just as well for Sussex," I remarked. "It may have been the
     southwest gale that brought it up. Come back to my house, both of
     you, and I will give you the terrible experience of one who has good
     reason to remember his own meeting with the same peril of the seas."

     When we reached my study we found that Murdoch was so far recovered
     that he could sit up. He was dazed in mind, and every now and then
     was shaken by a paroxysm of pain. In broken words he explained that
     he had no notion what had occurred to him, save that terrific pangs
     had suddenly shot through him, and that it had taken all his
     fortitude to reach the bank.

     "Here is a book," I said, taking up the little volume, "which first
     brought light into what might have been forever dark. It is Out of
     Doors, by the famous observer, J. G. Wood. Wood himself very nearly
     perished from contact with this vile creature, so he wrote with a
     very full knowledge. Cyanea capillata is the miscreant's full name,
     and he can be as dangerous to life as, and far more painful than, the
     bite of the cobra. Let me briefly give this extract.

     "If the bather should see a loose roundish mass of tawny membranes
     and fibres, something like very large handfuls of lion's mane and
     silver paper, let him beware, for this is the fearful stinger, Cyanea
     capillata.

     Could our sinister acquaintance be more clearly described?

     "He goes on to tell of his own encounter with one when swimming off
     the coast of Kent. He found that the creature radiated almost
     invisible filaments to the distance of fifty feet, and that anyone
     within that circumference from the deadly centre was in danger of
     death. Even at a distance the effect upon Wood was almost fatal.

     "The multitudinous threads caused light scarlet lines upon the skin
     which on closer examination resolved into minute dots or pustules,
     each dot charged as it were with a red-hot needle making its way
     through the nerves.

     "The local pain was, as he explains, the least part of the exquisite
     torment.

     "Pangs shot through the chest, causing me to fall as if struck by a
     bullet. The pulsation would cease, and then the heart would give six
     or seven leaps as if it would force its way through the chest.

     "It nearly killed him, although he had only been exposed to it in the
     disturbed ocean and not in the narrow calm waters of a bathing-pool.
     He says that he could hardly recognize himself afterwards, so white,
     wrinkled and shrivelled was his face. He gulped down brandy, a whole
     bottleful, and it seems to have saved his life. There is the book,
     Inspector. I leave it with you, and you cannot doubt that it contains
     a full explanation of the tragedy of poor McPherson."

     "And incidentally exonerates me," remarked Ian Murdoch with a wry
     smile. "I do not blame you, Inspector, nor you, Mr. Holmes, for your
     suspicions were natural. I feel that on the very eve of my arrest I
     have only cleared myself by sharing the fate of my poor friend."

     "No, Mr. Murdoch. I was already upon the track, and had I been out as
     early as I intended I might well have saved you from this terrific
     experience."

     "But how did you know, Mr. Holmes?"

     "I am an omnivorous reader with a strangely retentive memory for
     trifles. That phrase 'the Lion's Mane' haunted my mind. I knew that I
     had seen it somewhere in an unexpected context. You have seen that it
     does describe the creature. I have no doubt that it was floating on
     the water when McPher