   "Well, Holmes, I must confess that when I consider that this is a man
     who would certainly brush any obstacle from his path, and when I
     remember that his wife may have been an obstacle and an object of
     dislike, as that man Bates plainly told us, it seems to me--"

     "Exactly. And to me also."

     "But what were his relations with the governess, and how did you
     discover them?"

     "Bluff, Watson, bluff! When I considered the passionate,
     unconventional, unbusinesslike tone of his letter and contrasted it
     with his self-contained manner and appearance, it was pretty clear
     that there was some deep emotion which centred upon the accused woman
     rather than upon the victim. We've got to understand the exact
     relations of those three people if we are to reach the truth. You saw
     the frontal attack which I made upon him, and how imperturbably he
     received it. Then I bluffed him by giving him the impression that I
     was absolutely certain, when in reality I was only extremely
     suspicious."

     "Perhaps he will come back?"

     "He is sure to come back. He must come back. He can't leave it where
     it is. Ha! isn't that a ring? Yes, there is his footstep. Well, Mr.
     Gibson, I was just saying to Dr. Watson that you were somewhat
     overdue."

     The Gold King had reentered the room in a more chastened mood than he
     had left it. His wounded pride still showed in his resentful eyes,
     but his common sense had shown him that he must yield if he would
     attain his end.

     "I've been thinking it over, Mr. Holmes, and I feel that I have been
     hasty in taking your remarks amiss. You are justified in getting down
     to the facts, whatever they may be, and I think the more of you for
     it. I can assure you, however, that the relations between Miss Dunbar
     and me don't really touch this case."

     "That is for me to decide, is it not?"

     "Yes, I guess that is so. You're like a surgeon who wants every
     symptom before he can give his diagnosis."

     "Exactly. That expresses it. And it is only a patient who has an
     object in deceiving his surgeon who would conceal the facts of his
     case."

     "That may be so, but you will admit, Mr. Holmes, that most men would
     shy off a bit when they are asked point-blank what their relations
     with a woman may be--if there is really some serious feeling in the
     case. I guess most men have a little private reserve of their own in
     some corner of their souls where they don't welcome intruders. And
     you burst suddenly into it. But the object excuses you, since it was
     to try and save her. Well, the stakes are down and the reserve open,
     and you can explore where you will. What is it you want?"

     "The truth."

     The Gold King paused for a moment as one who marshals his thoughts.
     His grim, deep-lined face had become even sadder and more grave.

     "I can give it to you in a very few words, Mr. Holmes," said he at
     last. "There are some things that are painful as well as difficult to
     say, so I won't go deeper than is needful. I met my wife when I was
     gold-hunting in Brazil. Maria Pinto was the daughter of a government
     official at Manaos, and she was very beautiful. I was young and
     ardent in those days, but even now, as I look back with colder blood
     and a more critical eye, I can see that she was rare and wonderful in
     her beauty. It was a deep rich nature, too, passionate,
     whole-hearted, tropical, ill-balanced, very different from the
     American women whom I had known. Well, to make a long story short, I
     loved her and I married her. It was only when the romance had
     passed--and it lingered for years--that I realized that we had
     nothing--absolutely nothing--in common. My love faded. If hers had
     faded also it might have been easier. But you know the wonderful way
     of women! Do what I might, nothing could turn her from me. If I have
     been harsh to her, even brutal as some have said, it has been because
     I knew that if I could kill her love, or if it turned to hate, it
     would be easier for both of us. But nothing changed her. She adored
     me in those English woods as she had adored me twenty years ago on
     the banks of the Amazon. Do what I might, she was as devoted as ever.

     "Then came Miss Grace Dunbar. She answered our advertisement and
     became governess to our two children. Perhaps you have seen her
     portrait in the papers. The whole world has proclaimed that she also
     is a very beautiful woman. Now, I make no pretence to be more moral
     than my neighbours, and I will admit to you that I could not live
     under the same roof with such a woman and in daily contact with her
     without feeling a passionate regard for her. Do you blame me, Mr.
     Holmes?"

     "I do not blame you for feeling it. I should blame you if you
     expresse