le
     elopement had passed into history, he would suddenly discover them
     and announce that the guilty couple had relented and sent back the
     plunder or had dropped it on the way."

     "You certainly seem to have met every difficulty," said the
     inspector. "Of course, he was bound to call us in, but why he should
     have gone to you I can't understand."

     "Pure swank!" Holmes answered. "He felt so clever and so sure of
     himself that he imagined no one could touch him. He could say to any
     suspicious neighbour, 'Look at the steps I have taken. I have
     consulted not only the police but even Sherlock Holmes.'"

     The inspector laughed.

     "We must forgive you your 'even,' Mr. Holmes," said he, "it's as
     workmanlike a job as I can remember."

     A couple of days later my friend tossed across to me a copy of the
     bi-weekly North Surrey Observer. Under a series of flaming headlines,
     which began with "The Haven Horror" and ended with "Brilliant Police
     Investigation," there was a packed column of print which gave the
     first consecutive account of the affair. The concluding paragraph is
     typical of the whole. It ran thus:

     The remarkable acumen by which Inspector MacKinnon deduced from the
     smell of paint that some other smell, that of gas, for example, might
     be concealed; the bold deduction that the strong-room might also be
     the death-chamber, and the subsequent inquiry which led to the
     discovery of the bodies in a disused well, cleverly concealed by a
     dog-kennel, should live in the history of crime as a standing example
     of the intelligence of our professional detectives.

     "Well, well, MacKinnon is a good fellow," said Holmes with a tolerant
     smile. "You can file it in our archives, Watson. Some day the true
     story may be told."









     ----------
     This text is provided to you "as-is" without any warranty. No
     warranties of any kind, expressed or implied, are made to you as to
     the text or any medium it may be on, including but not limited to
     warranties of merchantablity or fitness for a particular purpose.

     Pictures for "The Adventure of the Dancing Men", "The Adventure of
     the Priory School", "The Adventure of the Golden Pince-Nez" and "The
     Adventure of the Missing Three-Quarter" were taken from a 1911
     edition of the "The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes" by Smith, Elder & Co.
     of London.

     Pictures for "The Adventure of the Dancing Men" were taken from a
     1915 edition of "The Return of Sherlock Holmes" by Smith, Elder & Co.
     of London.

     This text was formatted from various free ASCII and HTML variants.
     See http://sherlock-holm.es for an electronic form of this text and
     additional information about it.

     This text comes from the collection's version 3.1.





