son saw it, and that this phrase was the only
     one by which he could convey to us a warning as to the creature which
     had been his death."

     "Then I, at least, am cleared," said Murdoch, rising slowly to his
     feet. "There are one or two words of explanation which I should give,
     for I know the direction in which your inquiries have run. It is true
     that I loved this lady, but from the day when she chose my friend
     McPherson my one desire was to help her to happiness. I was well
     content to stand aside and act as their go-between. Often I carried
     their messages, and it was because I was in their confidence and
     because she was so dear to me that I hastened to tell her of my
     friend's death, lest someone should forestall me in a more sudden and
     heartless manner. She would not tell you, sir, of our relations lest
     you should disapprove and I might suffer. But with your leave I must
     try to get back to The Gables, for my bed will be very welcome."

     Stackhurst held out his hand. "Our nerves have all been at
     concert-pitch," said he. "Forgive what is past, Murdoch. We shall
     understand each other better in the future." They passed out together
     with their arms linked in friendly fashion. The inspector remained,
     staring at me in silence with his ox-like eyes.

     "Well, you've done it!" he cried at last. "I had read of you, but I
     never believed it. It's wonderful!"

     I was forced to shake my head. To accept such praise was to lower
     one's own standards.

     "I was slow at the outset--culpably slow. Had the body been found in
     the water I could hardly have missed it. It was the towel which
     misled me. The poor fellow had never thought to dry himself, and so I
     in turn was led to believe that he had never been in the water. Why,
     then, should the attack of any water creature suggest itself to me?
     That was where I went astray. Well, well, Inspector, I often ventured
     to chaff you gentlemen of the police force, but Cyanea capillata very
     nearly avenged Scotland Yard."






                       THE ADVENTURE OF THE VEILED LODGER

     When one considers that Mr. Sherlock Holmes was in active practice
     for twenty-three years, and that during seventeen of these I was
     allowed to cooperate with him and to keep notes of his doings, it
     will be clear that I have a mass of material at my command. The
     problem has always been not to find but to choose. There is the long
     row of year-books which fill a shelf, and there are the
     dispatch-cases filled with documents, a perfect quarry for the
     student not only of crime but of the social and official scandals of
     the late Victorian era. Concerning these latter, I may say that the
     writers of agonized letters, who beg that the honour of their
     families or the reputation of famous forebears may not be touched,
     have nothing to fear. The discretion and high sense of professional
     honour which have always distinguished my friend are still at work in
     the choice of these memoirs, and no confidence will be abused. I
     deprecate, however, in the strongest way the attempts which have been
     made lately to get at and to destroy these papers. The source of
     these outrages is known, and if they are repeated I have Mr. Holmes's
     authority for saying that the whole story concerning the politician,
     the lighthouse, and the trained cormorant will be given to the
     public. There is at least one reader who will understand.

     It is not reasonable to suppose that every one of these cases gave
     Holmes the opportunity of showing those curious gifts of instinct and
     observation which I have endeavoured to set forth in these memoirs.
     Sometimes he had with much effort to pick the fruit, sometimes it
     fell easily into his lap. But the most terrible human tragedies were
     often involved in those cases which brought him the fewest personal
     opportunities, and it is one of these which I now desire to record.
     In telling it, I have made a slight change of name and place, but
     otherwise the facts are as stated.

     One forenoon--it was late in 1896--I received a hurried note from
     Holmes asking for my attendance. When I arrived I found him seated in
     a smoke-laden atmosphere, with an elderly, motherly woman of the
     buxom landlady type in the corresponding chair in front of him.

     "This is Mrs. Merrilow, of South Brixton," said my friend with a wave
     of the hand. "Mrs. Merrilow does not object to tobacco, Watson, if
     you wish to indulge your filthy habits. Mrs. Merrilow has an
     interesting story to tell which may well lead to further developments
     in which your presence may be useful."

     "Anything I can do--"

     "You will understand, Mrs. Merrilow, that if I come to Mrs. Ronder I
     should prefer to have a witness. You will make her un