    Dolores, and Mrs. Mason. That is all."

     "I gather that you did not know your wife well at the time of your
     marriage?"

     "I had only known her a few weeks."

     "How long had this maid Dolores been with her?"

     "Some years."

     "Then your wife's character would really be better known by Dolores
     than by you?"

     "Yes, you may say so."

     Holmes made a note.

     "I fancy," said he, "that I may be of more use at Lamberley than
     here. It is eminently a case for personal investigation. If the lady
     remains in her room, our presence could not annoy or inconvenience
     her. Of course, we would stay at the inn."

     Ferguson gave a gesture of relief.

     "It is what I hoped, Mr. Holmes. There is an excellent train at two
     from Victoria if you could come."

     "Of course we could come. There is a lull at present. I can give you
     my undivided energies. Watson, of course, comes with us. But there
     are one or two points upon which I wish to be very sure before I
     start. This unhappy lady, as I understand it, has appeared to assault
     both the children, her own baby and your little son?"

     "That is so."

     "But the assaults take different forms, do they not? She has beaten
     your son."

     "Once with a stick and once very savagely with her hands."

     "Did she give no explanation why she struck him?"

     "None save that she hated him. Again and again she said so."

     "Well, that is not unknown among stepmothers. A posthumous jealousy,
     we will say. Is the lady jealous by nature?"

     "Yes, she is very jealous--jealous with all the strength of her fiery
     tropical love."

     "But the boy--he is fifteen, I understand, and probably very
     developed in mind, since his body has been circumscribed in action.
     Did he give you no explanation of these assaults?"

     "No, he declared there was no reason."

     "Were they good friends at other times?"

     "No, there was never any love between them."

     "Yet you say he is affectionate?"

     "Never in the world could there be so devoted a son. My life is his
     life. He is absorbed in what I say or do."

     Once again Holmes made a note. For some time he sat lost in thought.

     "No doubt you and the boy were great comrades before this second
     marriage. You were thrown very close together, were you not?"

     "Very much so."

     "And the boy, having so affectionate a nature, was devoted, no doubt,
     to the memory of his mother?"

     "Most devoted."

     "He would certainly seem to be a most interesting lad.  There is one
     other point about these assaults. Were the strange attacks upon the
     baby and the assaults upon your son at the same period?"

     "In the first case it was so. It was as if some frenzy had seized
     her, and she had vented her rage upon both. In the second case it was
     only Jack who suffered. Mrs. Mason had no complaint to make about the
     baby."

     "That certainly complicates matters."

     "I don't quite follow you, Mr. Holmes."

     "Possibly not. One forms provisional theories and waits for time or
     fuller knowledge to explode them. A bad habit, Mr. Ferguson, but
     human nature is weak. I fear that your old friend here has given an
     exaggerated view of my scientific methods. However, I will only say
     at the present stage that your problem does not appear to me to be
     insoluble, and that you may expect to find us at Victoria at two
     o'clock."

     It was evening of a dull, foggy November day when, having left our
     bags at the Chequers, Lamberley, we drove through the Sussex clay of
     a long winding lane and finally reached the isolated and ancient
     farmhouse in which Ferguson dwelt. It was a large, straggling
     building, very old in the centre, very new at the wings with towering
     Tudor chimneys and a lichen-spotted, high-pitched roof of Horsham
     slabs. The doorsteps were worn into curves, and the ancient tiles
     which lined the porch were marked with the rebus of a cheese and a
     man after the original builder. Within, the ceilings were corrugated
     with heavy oaken beams, and the uneven floors sagged into sharp
     curves. An odour of age and decay pervaded the whole crumbling
     building.

     There was one very large central room into which Ferguson led us.
     Here, in a huge old-fashioned fireplace with an iron screen behind it
     dated 1670, there blazed and spluttered a splendid log fire.

     The room, as I gazed round, was a most singular mixture of dates and
     of places. The half-panelled walls may well have belonged to the
     original yeoman farmer of the seventeenth century. They were
     ornamented, however, on the lower part by a line of well-chosen
     modern water-colours; while above, where yellow plaster took the
     place of oak, there was hung a fine collection of South American
     utensils and weapons, which