ome other
     lips than mine. When this gentleman, who seems to have powers of
     magic, wrote that he knew all, I was glad."

     "I think a year at sea would be my prescription for Master Jacky,"
     said Holmes, rising from his chair. "Only one thing is still clouded,
     madame. We can quite understand your attacks upon Master Jacky. There
     is a limit to a mother's patience. But how did you dare to leave the
     child these last two days?"

     "I had told Mrs. Mason. She knew."

     "Exactly. So I imagined."

     Ferguson was standing by the bed, choking, his hands outstretched and
     quivering.

     "This, I fancy, is the time for our exit, Watson," said Holmes in a
     whisper. "If you will take one elbow of the too faithful Dolores, I
     will take the other. There, now," he added as he closed the door
     behind him, "I think we may leave them to settle the rest among
     themselves."

     I have only one further note of this case. It is the letter which
     Holmes wrote in final answer to that with which the narrative begins.
     It ran thus:

     Baker Street,
     Nov. 21st.
                                   Re Vampires
     Sir:
     Referring to your letter of the 19th, I beg to state that I have
     looked into the inquiry of your client, Mr. Robert Ferguson, of
     Ferguson and Muirhead, tea brokers, of Mincing Lane, and that the
     matter has been brought to a satisfactory conclusion. With thanks for
     your recommendation, I am, sir,
     Faithfully yours,
     Sherlock Holmes.






                      THE ADVENTURE OF THE THREE GARRIDEBS

     It may have been a comedy, or it may have been a tragedy. It cost one
     man his reason, it cost me a blood-letting, and it cost yet another
     man the penalties of the law. Yet there was certainly an element of
     comedy. Well, you shall judge for yourselves.

     I remember the date very well, for it was in the same month that
     Holmes refused a knighthood for services which may perhaps some day
     be described. I only refer to the matter in passing, for in my
     position of partner and confidant I am obliged to be particularly
     careful to avoid any indiscretion. I repeat, however, that this
     enables me to fix the date, which was the latter end of June, 1902,
     shortly after the conclusion of the South African War. Holmes had
     spent several days in bed, as was his habit from time to time, but he
     emerged that morning with a long foolscap document in his hand and a
     twinkle of amusement in his austere gray eyes.

     "There is a chance for you to make some money, friend Watson," said
     he. "Have you ever heard the name of Garrideb?"

     I admitted that I had not.

     "Well, if you can lay your hand upon a Garrideb, there's money in
     it."

     "Why?"

     "Ah, that's a long story--rather a whimsical one, too. I don't think
     in all our explorations of human complexities we have ever come upon
     anything more singular. The fellow will be here presently for
     cross-examination, so I won't open the matter up till he comes. But,
     meanwhile, that's the name we want."

     The telephone directory lay on the table beside me, and I turned over
     the pages in a rather hopeless quest. But to my amazement there was
     this strange name in its due place. I gave a cry of triumph.

     "Here you are, Holmes! Here it is!"

     Holmes took the book from my hand.

     "'Garrideb, N.,' " he read, "'136 Little Ryder Street, W.' Sorry to
     disappoint you, my dear Watson, but this is the man himself. That is
     the address upon his letter. We want another to match him."

     Mrs. Hudson had come in with a card upon a tray. I took it up and
     glanced at it.

     "Why, here it is!" I cried in amazement. "This is a different
     initial. John Garrideb, Counsellor at Law, Moorville, Kansas, U. S.
     A."

     Holmes smiled as he looked at the card. "I am afraid you must make
     yet another effort, Watson," said he. "This gentleman is also in the
     plot already, though I certainly did not expect to see him this
     morning. However, he is in a position to tell us a good deal which I
     want to know."

     A moment later he was in the room. Mr. John Garrideb, Counsellor at
     Law, was a short, powerful man with the round, fresh, clean-shaven
     face characteristic of so many American men of affairs. The general
     effect was chubby and rather childlike, so that one received the
     impression of quite a young man with a broad set smile upon his face.
     His eyes, however, were arresting. Seldom in any human head have I
     seen a pair which bespoke a more intense inward life, so bright were
     they, so alert, so responsive to every change of thought. His accent
     was American, but was not accompanied by any eccentricity of speech.

     "Mr. Holmes?" he asked, glancing from one to the other. "Ah, yes!
     Your pictures are not unlik