rst-class surgeon should see him," said I.

     "For God's sake, no!" cried Bennett. "At present the scandal is
     confined to our own household. It is safe with us. If it gets beyond
     these walls it will never stop. Consider his position at the
     university, his European reputation, the feelings of his daughter."

     "Quite so," said Holmes. "I think it may be quite possible to keep
     the matter to ourselves, and also to prevent its recurrence now that
     we have a free hand. The key from the watch-chain, Mr. Bennett.
     Macphail will guard the patient and let us know if there is any
     change. Let us see what we can find in the professor's mysterious
     box."

     There was not much, but there was enough--an empty phial, another
     nearly full, a hypodermic syringe, several letters in a crabbed,
     foreign hand. The marks on the envelopes showed that they were those
     which had disturbed the routine of the secretary, and each was dated
     from the Commercial Road and signed "A. Dorak." They were mere
     invoices to say that a fresh bottle was being sent to Professor
     Presbury, or receipt to acknowledge money. There was one other
     envelope, however, in a more educated hand and bearing the Austrian
     stamp with the postmark of Prague. "Here we have our material!" cried
     Holmes as he tore out the enclosure.

     Honoured Colleague [it ran]:
     Since your esteemed visit I have thought much of your case, and
     though in your circumstances there are some special reasons for the
     treatment, I would none the less enjoin caution, as my results have
     shown that it is not without danger of a kind.
     It is possible that the serum of anthropoid would have been better. I
     have, as I explained to you, used black-faced langur because a
     specimen was accessible. Langur is, of course, a crawler and climber,
     while anthropoid walks erect and is in all ways nearer.
     I beg you to take every possible precaution that there be no
     premature revelation of the process. I have one other client in
     England, and Dorak is my agent for both.
     Weekly reports will oblige.
     Yours with high esteem,
     H. Lowenstein.

     Lowenstein! The name brought back to me the memory of some snippet
     from a newspaper which spoke of an obscure scientist who was striving
     in some unknown way for the secret of rejuvenescence and the elixir
     of life. Lowenstein of Prague! Lowenstein with the wondrous
     strength-giving serum, tabooed by the profession because he refused
     to reveal its source. In a few words I said what I remembered.
     Bennett had taken a manual of zoology from the shelves. "'Langur,'"
     he read, "'the great black-faced monkey of the Himalayan slopes,
     biggest and most human of climbing monkeys.' Many details are added.
     Well, thanks to you, Mr. Holmes, it is very clear that we have traced
     the evil to its source."

     "The real source," said Holmes, "lies, of course, in that untimely
     love affair which gave our impetuous professor the idea that he could
     only gain his wish by turning himself into a younger man. When one
     tries to rise above Nature one is liable to fall below it. The
     highest type of man may revert to the animal if he leaves the
     straight road of destiny." He sat musing for a little with the phial
     in his hand, looking at the clear liquid within. "When I have written
     to this man and told him that I hold him criminally responsible for
     the poisons which he circulates, we will have no more trouble. But it
     may recur. Others may find a better way. There is danger there--a
     very real danger to humanity. Consider, Watson, that the material,
     the sensual, the worldly would all prolong their worthless lives. The
     spiritual would not avoid the call to something higher. It would be
     the survival of the least fit. What sort of cesspool may not our poor
     world become?" Suddenly the dreamer disappeared, and Holmes, the man
     of action, sprang from his chair. "I think there is nothing more to
     be said, Mr. Bennett. The various incidents will now fit themselves
     easily into the general scheme. The dog, of course, was aware of the
     change far more quickly than you. His smell would insure that. It was
     the monkey, not the professor, whom Roy attacked, just as it was the
     monkey who teased Roy. Climbing was a joy to the creature, and it was
     a mere chance, I take it, that the pastime brought him to the young
     lady's window. There is an early train to town, Watson, but I think
     we shall just have time for a cup of tea at the Chequers before we
     catch it."






                        THE ADVENTURE OF THE LION'S MANE

     It is a most singular thing that a problem which was certainly as
     abstruse and unusual as any which I have faced in my long
     professional career should have come to me after my reti