ttention. But his symptoms are
     most remarkable. Did you observe his knuckles?"

     I had to confess that I did not.

     "Thick and horny in a way which is quite new in my experience. Always
     look at the hands first, Watson. Then cuffs, trouser-knees, and
     boots. Very curious knuckles which can only be explained by the mode
     of progression observed by--" Holmes paused and suddenly clapped his
     hand to his forehead. "Oh, Watson, Watson, what a fool I have been!
     It seems incredible, and yet it must be true. All points in one
     direction. How could I miss seeing the connection of ideas? Those
     knuckles--how could I have passed those knuckles? And the dog! And
     the ivy! It's surely time that I disappeared into that little farm of
     my dreams. Look out, Watson! Here he is! We shall have the chance of
     seeing for ourselves."

     The hall door had slowly opened, and against the lamplit background
     we saw the tall figure of Professor Presbury. He was clad in his
     dressing-gown. As he stood outlined in the doorway he was erect but
     leaning forward with dangling arms, as when we saw him last.

     Now he stepped forward into the drive, and an extraordinary change
     came over him. He sank down into a crouching position and moved along
     upon his hands and feet, skipping every now and then as if he were
     overflowing with energy and vitality. He moved along the face of the
     house and then round the corner. As he disappeared Bennett slipped
     through the hall door and softly followed him.

     "Come, Watson, come!" cried Holmes, and we stole as softly as we
     could through the bushes until we had gained a spot whence we could
     see the other side of the house, which was bathed in the light of the
     half-moon. The professor was clearly visible crouching at the foot of
     the ivy-covered wall. As we watched him he suddenly began with
     incredible agility to ascend it. From branch to branch he sprang,
     sure of foot and firm of grasp, climbing apparently in mere joy at
     his own powers, with no definite object in view. With his
     dressing-gown flapping on each side of him, he looked like some huge
     bat glued against the side of his own house, a great square dark
     patch upon the moonlit wall. Presently he tired of this amusement,
     and, dropping from branch to branch, he squatted down into the old
     attitude and moved towards the stables, creeping along in the same
     strange way as before. The wolfhound was out now, barking furiously,
     and more excited than ever when it actually caught sight of its
     master. It was straining on its chain and quivering with eagerness
     and rage. The professor squatted down very deliberately just out of
     reach of the hound and began to provoke it in every possible way. He
     took handfuls of pebbles from the drive and threw them in the dog's
     face, prodded him with a stick which he had picked up, flicked his
     hands about only a few inches from the gaping mouth, and endeavoured
     in every way to increase the animal's fury, which was already beyond
     all control. In all our adventures I do not know that I have ever
     seen a more strange sight than this impassive and still dignified
     figure crouching frog-like upon the ground and goading to a wilder
     exhibition of passion the maddened hound, which ramped and raged in
     front of him, by all manner of ingenious and calculated cruelty.

     And then in a moment it happened! It was not the chain that broke,
     but it was the collar that slipped, for it had been made for a
     thick-necked Newfoundland. We heard the rattle of falling metal, and
     the next instant dog and man were rolling on the ground together, the
     one roaring in rage, the other screaming in a strange shrill falsetto
     of terror. It was a very narrow thing for the professor's life. The
     savage creature had him fairly by the throat, its fangs had bitten
     deep, and he was senseless before we could reach them and drag the
     two apart. It might have been a dangerous task for us, but Bennett's
     voice and presence brought the great wolfhound instantly to reason.
     The uproar had brought the sleepy and astonished coachman from his
     room above the stables. "I'm not surprised," said he, shaking his
     head. "I've seen him at it before. I knew the dog would get him
     sooner or later."

     The hound was secured, and together we carried the professor up to
     his room, where Bennett, who had a medical degree, helped me to dress
     his torn throat. The sharp teeth had passed dangerously near the
     carotid artery, and the haemorrhage was serious. In half an hour the
     danger was past, I had given the patient an injection of morphia, and
     he had sunk into deep sleep. Then, and only then, were we able to
     look at each other and to take stock of the situation.

     "I think a fi