 knew that we were alone in the lower floor of the
     house. Holmes made a rapid examination of the premises. There was one
     cupboard in a dark corner which stood out a little from the wall. It
     was behind this that we eventually crouched while Holmes in a whisper
     outlined his intentions.

     "He wanted to get our amiable friend out of his room--that is very
     clear, and, as the collector never went out, it took some planning to
     do it. The whole of this Garrideb invention was apparently for no
     other end. I must say, Watson, that there is a certain devilish
     ingenuity about it, even if the queer name of the tenant did give him
     an opening which he could hardly have expected. He wove his plot with
     remarkable cunning."

     "But what did he want?"

     "Well, that is what we are here to find out. It has nothing whatever
     to do with our client, so far as I can read the situation. It is
     something connected with the man he murdered--the man who may have
     been his confederate in crime. There is some guilty secret in the
     room. That is how I read it. At first I thought our friend might have
     something in his collection more valuable than he knew--something
     worth the attention of a big criminal. But the fact that Rodger
     Prescott of evil memory inhabited these rooms points to some deeper
     reason. Well, Watson, we can but possess our souls in patience and
     see what the hour may bring."

     That hour was not long in striking. We crouched closer in the shadow
     as we heard the outer door open and shut. Then came the sharp,
     metallic snap of a key, and the American was in the room. He closed
     the door softly behind him, took a sharp glance around him to see
     that all was safe, threw off his overcoat, and walked up to the
     central table with the brisk manner of one who knows exactly what he
     has to do and how to do it. He pushed the table to one side, tore up
     the square of carpet on which it rested, rolled it completely back,
     and then, drawing a jemmy from his inside pocket, he knelt down and
     worked vigorously upon the floor. Presently we heard the sound of
     sliding boards, and an instant later a square had opened in the
     planks. Killer Evans struck a match, lit a stump of candle, and
     vanished from our view.

     Clearly our moment had come. Holmes touched my wrist as a signal, and
     together we stole across to the open trap-door. Gently as we moved,
     however, the old floor must have creaked under our feet, for the head
     of our American, peering anxiously round, emerged suddenly from the
     open space. His face turned upon us with a glare of baffled rage,
     which gradually softened into a rather shamefaced grin as he realized
     that two pistols were pointed at his head.

     "Well, well!" said he coolly as he scrambled to the surface. "I guess
     you have been one too many for me, Mr. Holmes. Saw through my game, I
     suppose, and played me for a sucker from the first. Well, sir, I hand
     it to you; you have me beat and--"

     In an instant he had whisked out a revolver from his breast and had
     fired two shots. I felt a sudden hot sear as if a red-hot iron had
     been pressed to my thigh. There was a crash as Holmes's pistol came
     down on the man's head. I had a vision of him sprawling upon the
     floor with blood running down his face while Holmes rummaged him for
     weapons. Then my friend's wiry arms were round me, and he was leading
     me to a chair.

     "You're not hurt, Watson? For God's sake, say that you are not hurt!"

     It was worth a wound--it was worth many wounds--to know the depth of
     loyalty and love which lay behind that cold mask. The clear, hard
     eyes were dimmed for a moment, and the firm lips were shaking. For
     the one and only time I caught a glimpse of a great heart as well as
     of a great brain. All my years of humble but single-minded service
     culminated in that moment of revelation.

     "It's nothing, Holmes. It's a mere scratch."

     He had ripped up my trousers with his pocket-knife.

     "You are right," he cried with an immense sigh of relief. "It is
     quite superficial." His face set like flint as he glared at our
     prisoner, who was sitting up with a dazed face. "By the Lord, it is
     as well for you. If you had killed Watson, you would not have got out
     of this room alive. Now, sir, what have you to say for yourself?"

     He had nothing to say for himself. He only sat and scowled. I leaned
     on Holmes's arm, and together we looked down into the small cellar
     which had been disclosed by the secret flap. It was still illuminated
     by the candle which Evans had taken down with him. Our eyes fell upon
     a mass of rusted machinery, great rolls of paper, a litter of
     bottles, and, neatly arranged upon a small table, a number of neat
     little bundles.

   