e you, sir, if I may say so. I believe you
     have had a letter from my namesake, Mr. Nathan Garrideb, have you
     not?"

     "Pray sit down," said Sherlock Holmes. "We shall, I fancy, have a
     good deal to discuss." He took up his sheets of foolscap. "You are,
     of course, the Mr. John Garrideb mentioned in this document. But
     surely you have been in England some time?"

     "Why do you say that, Mr. Holmes?" I seemed to read sudden suspicion
     in those expressive eyes.

     "Your whole outfit is English."

     Mr. Garrideb forced a laugh. "I've read of your tricks, Mr. Holmes,
     but I never thought I would be the subject of them. Where do you read
     that?"

     "The shoulder cut of your coat, the toes of your boots--could anyone
     doubt it?"

     "Well, well, I had no idea I was so obvious a Britisher. But business
     brought me over here some time ago, and so, as you say, my outfit is
     nearly all London. However, I guess your time is of value, and we did
     not meet to talk about the cut of my socks. What about getting down
     to that paper you hold in your hand?"

     Holmes had in some way ruffled our visitor, whose chubby face had
     assumed a far less amiable expression.

     "Patience! Patience, Mr. Garrideb!" said my friend in a soothing
     voice. "Dr. Watson would tell you that these little digressions of
     mine sometimes prove in the end to have some bearing on the matter.
     But why did Mr. Nathan Garrideb not come with you?"

     "Why did he ever drag you into it at all?" asked our visitor with a
     sudden outflame of anger. "What in thunder had you to do with it?
     Here was a bit of professional business between two gentlemen, and
     one of them must needs call in a detective! I saw him this morning,
     and he told me this fool-trick he had played me, and that's why I am
     here. But I feel bad about it, all the same."

     "There was no reflection upon you, Mr. Garrideb. It was simply zeal
     upon his part to gain your end--an end which is, I understand,
     equally vital for both of you. He knew that I had means of getting
     information, and, therefore, it was very natural that he should apply
     to me."

     Our visitor's angry face gradually cleared.

     "Well, that puts it different," said he. "When I went to see him this
     morning and he told me he had sent to a detective, I just asked for
     your address and came right away. I don't want police butting into a
     private matter. But if you are content just to help us find the man,
     there can be no harm in that."

     "Well, that is just how it stands," said Holmes. "And now, sir, since
     you are here, we had best have a clear account from your own lips. My
     friend here knows nothing of the details."

     Mr. Garrideb surveyed me with not too friendly a gaze.

     "Need he know?" he asked.

     "We usually work together."

     "Well, there's no reason it should be kept a secret. I'll give you
     the facts as short as I can make them. If you came from Kansas I
     would not need to explain to you who Alexander Hamilton Garrideb was.
     He made his money in real estate, and afterwards in the wheat pit at
     Chicago, but he spent it in buying up as much land as would make one
     of your counties, lying along the Arkansas River, west of Fort Dodge.
     It's grazing-land and lumber-land and arable-land and
     mineralized-land, and just every sort of land that brings dollars to
     the man that owns it.

     "He had no kith nor kin--or, if he had, I never heard of it. But he
     took a kind of pride in the queerness of his name. That was what
     brought us together. I was in the law at Topeka, and one day I had a
     visit from the old man, and he was tickled to death to meet another
     man with his own name. It was his pet fad, and he was dead set to
     find out if there were any more Garridebs in the world. 'Find me
     another!' said he. I told him I was a busy man and could not spend my
     life hiking round the world in search of Garridebs. 'None the less,'
     said he, 'that is just what you will do if things pan out as I
     planned them.' I thought he was joking, but there was a powerful lot
     of meaning in the words, as I was soon to discover.

     "For he died within a year of saying them, and he left a will behind
     him. It was the queerest will that has ever been filed in the State
     of Kansas. His property was divided into three parts, and I was to
     have one on condition that I found two Garridebs who would share the
     remainder. It's five million dollars for each if it is a cent, but we
     can't lay a finger on it until we all three stand in a row.

     "It was so big a chance that I just let my legal practice slide and I
     set forth looking for Garridebs. There is not one in the United
     States. I went through it, sir, with a fine-toothed comb and never a
     Garrideb could I cat