grew darker around me. My mind was
     filled with racing thoughts. You have known what it was to be in a
     nightmare in which you feel that there is some all-important thing
     for which you search and which you know is there, though it remains
     forever just beyond your reach. That was how I felt that evening as I
     stood alone by that place of death. Then at last I turned and walked
     slowly homeward.

     I had just reached the top of the path when it came to me. Like a
     flash, I remembered the thing for which I had so eagerly and vainly
     grasped. You will know, or Watson has written in vain, that I hold a
     vast store of out-of-the-way knowledge without scientific system, but
     very available for the needs of my work. My mind is like a crowded
     box-room with packets of all sorts stowed away therein--so many that
     I may well have but a vague perception of what was there. I had known
     that there was something which might bear upon this matter. It was
     still vague, but at least I knew how I could make it clear. It was
     monstrous, incredible, and yet it was always a possibility. I would
     test it to the full.

     There is a great garret in my little house which is stuffed with
     books. It was into this that I plunged and rummaged for an hour. At
     the end of that time I emerged with a little chocolate and silver
     volume. Eagerly I turned up the chapter of which I had a dim
     remembrance. Yes, it was indeed a far-fetched and unlikely
     proposition, and yet I could not be at rest until I had made sure if
     it might, indeed, be so. It was late when I retired, with my mind
     eagerly awaiting the work of the morrow.

     But that work met with an annoying interruption. I had hardly
     swallowed my early cup of tea and was starting for the beach when I
     had a call from Inspector Bardle of the Sussex Constabulary--a
     steady, solid, bovine man with thoughtful eyes, which looked at me
     now with a very troubled expression.

     "I know your immense experience, sir," said he. "This is quite
     unofficial, of course, and need go no farther. But I am fairly up
     against it in this McPherson case. The question is, shall I make an
     arrest, or shall I not?"

     "Meaning Mr. Ian Murdoch?"

     "Yes, sir. There is really no one else when you come to think of it.
     That's the advantage of this solitude. We narrow it down to a very
     small compass. If he did not do it, then who did?"

     "What have you against him?"

     He had gleaned along the same furrows as I had. There was Murdoch's
     character and the mystery which seemed to hang round the man. His
     furious bursts of temper, as shown in the incident of the dog. The
     fact that he had quarrelled with McPherson in the past, and that
     there was some reason to think that he might have resented his
     attentions to Miss Bellamy. He had all my points, but no fresh ones,
     save that Murdoch seemed to be making every preparation for
     departure.

     "What would my position be if I let him slip away with all this
     evidence against him?" The burly, phlegmatic man was sorely troubled
     in his mind.

     "Consider," I said, "all the essential gaps in your case. On the
     morning of the crime he can surely prove an alibi. He had been with
     his scholars till the last moment, and within a few minutes of
     McPherson's appearance he came upon us from behind. Then bear in mind
     the absolute impossibility that he could single-handed have inflicted
     this outrage upon a man quite as strong as himself. Finally, there is
     this question of the instrument with which these injuries were
     inflicted."

     "What could it be but a scourge or flexible whip of some sort?"

     "Have you examined the marks?" I asked.

     "I have seen them. So has the doctor."

     "But I have examined them very carefully with a lens. They have
     peculiarities."

     "What are they, Mr. Holmes?"

     I stepped to my bureau and brought out an enlarged photograph. "This
     is my method in such cases," I explained.

     "You certainly do things thoroughly, Mr. Holmes."

     "I should hardly be what I am if I did not. Now let us consider this
     weal which extends round the right shoulder. Do you observe nothing
     remarkable?"

     "I can't say I do."

     "Surely it is evident that it is unequal in its intensity. There is a
     dot of extravasated blood here, and another there. There are similar
     indications in this other weal down here. What can that mean?"

     "I have no idea. Have you?"

     "Perhaps I have. Perhaps I haven't. I may be able to say more soon.
     Anything which will define what made that mark will bring us a long
     way towards the criminal."

     "It is, of course, an absurd idea," said the policeman, "but if a
     red-hot net of wire had been laid across the back, then these better
     marked points